---0001193125-08-224958---
Risk Factors 
 
Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company’s financial condition and
operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 
 
Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company. 
 
The Company’s operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may postpone spending in response to
tighter credit, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values, which could have a material negative effect on the demand for the Company’s products and services. Demand could also differ materially from the Company’s
expectations since the Company generally raises prices on goods and services sold outside the U.S. to offset the effect of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, a trend which has been very pronounced recently. Other factors that could influence
demand include continuing increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the residential real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer
spending behavior. These and other economic factors could have a material adverse effect on demand for the Company’s products and services and on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The current financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets and the possibility that financial institutions may consolidate or go out of
business have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets, a low level of liquidity in many financial markets, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on
effects from the credit crisis on the Company’s business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of the
Company’s products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively impacting the Company’s treasury operations. Other income and expense
could also vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges 


 
 


14 






Table of Contents




related to debt securities as well as equity and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative
instruments. The current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increases the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on the Company’s financial instruments could differ
significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. 
 
Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase
the volatility of the Company’s stock price. 
 
The matters relating to the Company’s past stock option practices and the restatement of the
Company’s consolidated financial statements may result in additional litigation. 
 
The findings from the Company’s investigation into its past
stock option granting practices and the resulting restatement of prior financial statements in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year September 30, 2006 (the “2006 Form 10-K”) have exposed the Company to
greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. As described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” several derivative complaints and a class action complaint have been filed in
state and federal courts against the Company and certain current and former directors and executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to past stock option grants. The Company has provided the results of its investigation to the Securities
and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) and the United States Attorney’s Office for the Northern District of California, and the Company has responded to their requests for documents and additional information. The Company intends to
continue to provide its full cooperation. 
 
On April 24, 2007, the SEC filed an enforcement action against two former officers of the Company. In
announcing the lawsuit, the SEC stated that it would not bring an enforcement action against the Company based in part on the Company’s “swift, extensive, and extraordinary cooperation in the Commission’s investigation.”
According to the SEC’s statement, the Company’s “cooperation consisted of, among other things, prompt self-reporting, an independent internal investigation, the sharing of the results of that investigation with the government, and the
implementation of new controls designed to prevent the recurrence of fraudulent conduct.” The enforcement actions against each of these former officers have now been settled. 
 
No assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation relating to the Company’s past stock option practices. These and related matters have required, and will continue to require, the Company to incur
substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax, and other professional services, and may divert management’s attention from the Company’s business. If the Company is subject to adverse findings, it could be required to pay damages and
penalties and might face additional remedies that could harm its financial condition and operating results. 
 
Global markets for personal computers,
digital music devices, mobile communication devices, and related peripherals and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If the Company is unable to compete effectively in these markets, its financial condition and
operating results could be materially adversely affected. 
 
The Company competes in global markets that are highly competitive and characterized by
aggressive price cutting, with its resulting downward pressure on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price/performance characteristics, rapid
adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers. 
 
The Company’s ability to compete
successfully depends heavily on its ability to ensure a continuing and timely introduction of new innovative products and technologies to the marketplace. The Company believes it is unique in that it designs and develops nearly the entire solution
for its personal computers, consumer electronics, and mobile communication devices, including the hardware, operating system, several software applications, and related services. As a result, the Company must make significant investments in research
and development and as such, the Company currently holds a significant number of patents and copyrights and has registered and/or has applied to register numerous patents, trademarks and service marks. By contrast, many of the Company’s
competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins or if other companies 


 
 


15 






Table of Contents




infringe on the Company’s intellectual property, the Company’s ability to maintain a competitive advantage could be negatively affected and have a
materially adverse affect on its financial condition and operating results. 
 
In the market for personal computers and peripherals, the Company faces a
significant number of competitors, many of which have broader product lines, lower priced products, and larger installed customer bases. Consolidation in this market has resulted in larger and potentially stronger competitors. Price competition has
been particularly intense as competitors selling Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. The Company also faces increased competition in key market segments, including consumer, SMB, education,
enterprise, government, and creative markets. An increasing number of Internet devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Company’s existing
products. 
 
The Company is currently the only authorized maker of hardware using the Mac OS. The Mac OS has a minority market share in the personal computer
market, which is dominated by makers of computers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. The Company’s financial condition and operating results depend substantially on the Company’s ability to continually improve the Mac
platform to maintain design and functional advantages. Use of unauthorized copies of the Mac OS on other companies’ hardware products may result in decreased demand for the Company’s hardware products, and could materially adversely affect
the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company is currently focused on certain mobile communication devices, such as iPhone;
consumer electronic devices, including the iPod family of digital music players, and digital content distribution. The Company faces substantial competition from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution, and other
resources, as well as established hardware, software, and digital content supplier relationships. The Company has only recently entered the mobile communications market, and many of its competitors in the mobile communications market have
significantly greater experience, product breadth, and distribution channels than the Company. The Company also competes with illegitimate ways to obtain digital content. Because some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and
experience and a lower cost structure, they may be able to provide such products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss. The Company also expects competition to intensify as competitors attempt to imitate the Company’s approach
to providing these components seamlessly within their individual offerings or work collaboratively to offer integrated solutions. 
 
There can be no assurance
the Company will be able to continue to provide products and services that compete effectively. 
 
To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand,
the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions. 
 
Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the personal
computer, consumer electronics and mobile communication industries, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies, enhance existing products, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. The success
of new product introductions depends on a number of factors, including timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Company’s ability to manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp issues, the
availability of application software for new products, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities and costs to meet
anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect of new product introductions and transitions on its
financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk. 
 
The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or net realizable value and accrues
necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders of excess products and components. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
If the Company determines that impairment has occurred, it records a write-down equal to the amount by which the carrying 


 
 


16 






Table of Contents




value of the assets exceeds its fair market value. Although the Company believes its inventory, asset, and related provisions are currently adequate, no
assurance can be given that, given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the global personal computer, consumer electronics, and mobile communication industries, the Company will not incur additional inventory or asset related
charges. Such charges have had, and could have, a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company must
order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open
orders based on projected demand. Such purchase commitments typically cover forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for 30 to 150 days. Because the Company’s markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and
price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient inventories of components or products. The Company’s financial condition and operating results have been in the past and could be
in the future materially adversely affected by the Company’s ability to manage its inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns. 
 
Future operating results depend upon the Company’s ability to obtain key components including, but not limited to microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs at favorable prices and in sufficient
quantities. 
 
Because the Company currently obtains certain key components including, but not limited to microprocessors, enclosures, certain LCDs,
certain optical drives, and ASICs, from single or limited sources, the Company is subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources including, but not limited to NAND
flash memory, DRAM and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company has entered into certain agreements for the supply of key components including, but not limited to
microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs at favorable pricing, but there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar favorable terms, or at all, upon expiration or otherwise obtain favorable
pricing in the future. Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply shortages and/or price increases that can have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results. The Company expects to experience
decreases in its gross margin percentage in future periods, as compared to levels achieved during 2008 and 2007, due largely to the anticipated impact of product transitions, flat or reduced pricing on new and innovative products that have higher
cost structures, both expected and potential future cost increases for key components, and higher logistical costs. For additional information refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations,” under the subheading “Gross Margin,” which is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
The Company and other participants
in the personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communication industries compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom components that are not
common to the rest of the personal computer, consumer electronics or mobile communication industries. The Company’s new products often utilize custom components available from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there is a
need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured. Continued availability of these components at
acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decided to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Company’s requirements. If the supply of a key single-sourced component
for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the Company’s financial
condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 
 
The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistical
services provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside of the U.S. 
 
Most of the Company’s components and products are manufactured in
whole or in part by a few third-party manufacturers. Many of these manufacturers are located outside of the U.S., and are geographically concentrated 


 
 


17 






Table of Contents




in single locations. The Company has also outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs,
they also reduce the Company’s direct control over production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of products or services, or the Company’s flexibility to respond to
changing conditions. In addition, the Company relies on third-party manufacturers to adhere to the Company’s supplier code of conduct. Although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the
Company may remain responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results. 
 
Final assembly of the Company’s products is
currently performed in the Company’s manufacturing facility in Ireland, and by external vendors in California, Korea, China and the Czech Republic. Currently, the supply and manufacture of many critical components is performed by sole-sourced
third-party vendors in the U.S., China, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Singapore. Sole-sourced third-party vendors in China perform final assembly of substantially all of the Company’s portable products, including
MacBook Pro, MacBook, MacBook Air, iPods, iPhones and most of the Company’s iMacs. If manufacturing or logistics in these locations is disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military
actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 
 
The Company relies on third-party digital content, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 
 
The Company contracts with certain third parties to offer their digital content through the Company’s iTunes Store. The Company pays substantial fees to obtain the
rights to audio and video content. The Company’s licensing arrangements with these third parties are short-term and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. Some third-party content
providers currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license their content in the future. Other content owners, providers or distributors may
seek to limit the Company’s access to, or increase the total cost of, such content. If the Company is unable to continue to offer a wide variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue to expand its geographic
reach, the Company’s financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. 
 
Many third-party content providers require that
the Company provide certain digital rights management (“DRM”) and other security solutions. If these requirements change, the Company may have to develop or license new technology to provide these solutions. There is no assurance the
Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. In addition, certain countries have passed or may propose legislation that would force the Company to license its DRM, which could lessen the
protection of content and subject it to piracy and also could affect arrangements with the Company’s content providers. 
 
The Company relies on
access to third-party patents and intellectual property, and the Company’s future results could be materially adversely affected if it is alleged or found to have infringed intellectual property rights. 
 
Many of the Company’s products are designed to include third-party intellectual property, and in the future the Company may need to seek or renew licenses relating
to various aspects of its products and business methods. Although the Company believes that, based on past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on reasonable terms, there is no assurance that the necessary
licenses would be available on acceptable terms or at all. 
 
Because of technological changes in the global personal computer, consumer electronics and
mobile communication industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of the Company’s products and business methods may unknowingly infringe the patents or other
intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, the Company has been notified that it may be infringing such rights. Regardless of merit, responding to such claims can consume significant time and 


 
 


18 






Table of Contents




expense. At present, the Company is vigorously defending more than 21 patent infringement cases, 13 of which were filed during fiscal 2008, and several
pending claims are in various stages of evaluation. In certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that
litigation will not occur. If the Company is found to be infringing such rights, it may be required to pay substantial damages. If there is a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing or selling certain products or a
successful claim of infringement against the Company requires it to pay royalties to a third party, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether it can develop
non-infringing technology. While in management’s opinion the Company does not have a potential liability for damages or royalties from any known current legal proceedings or claims related to the infringement of patent or other intellectual
property rights that would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results, the results of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail to prevail
in any of the matters related to infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others or should several of these matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the Company’s financial condition and
operating results could be materially adversely affected. 
 
With the June 2007 introduction of iPhone, the Company has begun to compete with mobile
communication device companies that hold significant patent portfolios. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or the merits of any potential patent claims by competitors, the Company may have to engage in protracted
litigation, enter into expensive agreements or settlements and/or modify its products. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company’s future performance depends on support from third-party software developers. If third-party software applications and services cease to be developed
and maintained for the Company’s products, customers may choose not to buy the Company’s products. 
 
The Company believes decisions by
customers to purchase its hardware products, including its Macs, iPods and iPhones, are often based to a certain extent on the availability of third-party software applications and services. There is no assurance that third-party developers will
continue to develop and maintain applications and services for the Company’s products on a timely basis or at all, and discontinuance or delay of these applications and services could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial condition and operating results. 
 
With respect to its Mac products, the Company believes the availability of third-party software applications and
services depends in part on the developers’ perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company’s products compared to Windows-based products. This analysis may be based
on factors such as the perceived strength of the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, continued acceptance by customers of Mac OS X, and the costs of developing such applications and services. If the
Company’s minority share of the global personal computer market causes developers to question the Company’s prospects, developers could be less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Company’s products and more inclined to
devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. The Company’s development of its own software applications and services may also negatively affect the decisions of third-party developers, such as
Microsoft, Adobe, and Google, to develop, maintain, and upgrade similar or competitive software and services for the Company’s products. Mac OS X Leopard, which became available in October 2007, includes a new feature that enables Intel-based
Mac systems to run Microsoft Windows XP and Windows Vista operating systems. This feature may deter developers from creating software applications for Mac OS X if such applications are already available for the Windows platform. 
 
With respect to iPhone and iPod touch, the Company relies on the continued availability and development of compelling and innovative software applications. As with
applications for the Company’s Mac products, the availability and development of these applications also depend on developers’ perceptions and analysis of the relative benefits of developing software for the Company’s products rather
than its competitors’, including devices that use competing platforms. If developers focus their efforts on these competing platforms, the availability and quality of applications for the Company’s devices may suffer. 
 
 


19 






Table of Contents


The Company’s products and services experience quality problems from time to time that can result in decreased
sales and operating margin. 
 
The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products and services that can contain defects in design and
manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those sold by the Company, often contain “bugs” that can unexpectedly interfere with the software’s intended operation. Defects may also occur in
components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware, software and services it sells. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, harm
to reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses, and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate for a variety of reasons. 
 
The
Company’s profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company’s software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain of the Company’s other products.
Gross margins on the Company’s hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time as a result of product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Company’s
direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. In addition, the Company’s gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be materially
adversely impacted as a result of a shift in product, geographic or channel mix, new products, component cost increases, or price competition. The Company has typically experienced greater net sales in the first and fourth fiscal quarters compared
to the second and third fiscal quarters due to seasonal demand related to the holiday season and the beginning of the school year, respectively. Furthermore, the Company sells more products from time-to-time during the third month of a quarter than
it does during either of the first two months. Developments late in a quarter, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’s products, an internal systems failure, or failure of one of the Company’s key logistics, components
supply, or manufacturing partners, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
In certain
countries, including the U.S., the Company relies on a single cellular network carrier to provide service for iPhone. 
 
In the U.S., U.K., France,
Germany, Spain, Ireland, and certain other countries, the Company has contracted with a single carrier to provide cellular network services for iPhone on an exclusive basis. If these exclusive carriers cannot successfully compete with other carriers
in their markets for any reason, including but not limited to the quality and coverage of wireless voice and data services, performance and timely build-out of advanced wireless networks, and pricing and other terms of conditions of end-user
contracts, or if these exclusive carriers fail to promote iPhone aggressively or favor other handsets in their promotion and sales activities or service plans, sales may be materially adversely affected. 
 
The Company is subject to risks associated with laws, regulations and industry-imposed standards related to mobile communications devices. 
 
Laws and regulations related to mobile communications devices in the many jurisdictions in which the Company operates are extensive and subject to change. Such changes,
which could include but are not limited to restrictions on production, manufacture, distribution, and use of the device, locking the device to a carrier’s network, or mandating the use of the device on more than one carrier’s network,
could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
Mobile communication devices, such as iPhone, are
subject to certification and regulation by governmental and standardization bodies, as well as by cellular network carriers for use on their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result in
additional testing requirements, product modifications or delays in product shipment dates, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
 


20 






Table of Contents


The Company may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data
security. 
 
Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security could disrupt the Company’s operations by
causing delays or cancellation of customer, including channel partner, orders, negatively affecting the Company’s online offerings and services, impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, processing transactions and reporting financial
results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or Company information, or damage to the Company’s reputation. While management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing sophisticated network security and internal
control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company’s stock price continues to be volatile. 
 
The
Company’s stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between its actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by the Company and its competitors, or uncertainty about current global economic
conditions. The stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performance.
Furthermore, the Company believes its stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. If the Company fails to meet these expectations its stock price may significantly decline. 
 
Political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other circumstances could materially adversely affect the Company. 
 
War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international
commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. The Company’s business operations are subject to
interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Company’s products, make
it difficult or impossible for the Company to make and deliver products to its customers, including channel partners, or to receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in the Company’s supply chain. Should major
public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could be negatively affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between
regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in the operations of the Company’s manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority of the Company’s research and development activities, its corporate
headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. Because the Company does not carry earthquake insurance for
direct quake-related losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake. 
 
The Company’s success depends largely on its ability to attract and retain key personnel. 
 
Much of the Company’s future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including its CEO, its executive team and key employees in technical, marketing and staff positions.
Experienced personnel in the technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley, where most of the Company’s key employees are located. The Company has relied on equity awards
as one means for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Accounting regulations requiring the expensing of stock options have resulted in increased stock-based compensation expense, which has caused the Company to reduce the number of
stock-based awards issued to employees and could negatively impact the Company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel. Additionally, significant adverse volatility in the Company’s stock price could result in a stock option’s
exercise price exceeding the underlying stock’s market value or a significant deterioration in the value of restricted stock units (“RSUs”) granted, thus lessening the 


 
 


21 






Table of Contents




effectiveness of retaining employees through stock-based awards. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to successfully attract and retain
key personnel. 
 
Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company. 
 
The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of its business and are not yet resolved and additional claims
may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to the Company’s operations and cause significant expense and diversion of
management attention. In recognition of these considerations, the Company may enter into material settlements. Should the Company fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against the Company in the same
reporting period, the Company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against it that would materially adversely affect a portion of its business and might materially affect the Company’s financial condition and
operating results. 
 
The Company’s business is subject to the risks of international operations. 
 
The Company derives a large and growing portion of its revenue and earnings from its international operations. As a result, its financial condition and operating results
could be significantly affected by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar
versus local currencies. Margins on sales of the Company’s products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. 
 
The Company’s primary exposure to movements in
foreign currency exchange rates relate to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts of Asia, as well as non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weakening of foreign
currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally will lead the Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand
for the Company’s products. In some circumstances, due to competition or other reasons, the Company may decide not to raise local prices to the full extent of the dollar’s strengthening, or at all, which would adversely affect the U.S.
dollar value of the Company’s foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies, while generally beneficial to the Company’s foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the
Company to reduce international pricing, thereby limiting the benefit. As strengthening of foreign currencies may also increase the Company’s cost of product components denominated in those currencies. 
 
The Company has used derivative instruments, such as foreign exchange forward and option positions, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency
exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. 
 
The Company’s retail business has required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and is subject to numerous risks and
uncertainties. 
 
Through September 27, 2008, the Company had opened 247 retail stores. The Company’s retail stores have required substantial
fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with terms ranging from 5 to 20 years, the majority
of which are for 10 years. Certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and serve as vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because of their unique design elements, locations
and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company’s more typical retail stores. Due to the high fixed cost structure associated with the Retail segment, a decline in sales or the closure or poor performance of
individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and severance costs that could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and
operating results. 
 
 


22 






Table of Contents


Many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, pose risks and
uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on the Retail segment’s future results, cause its actual results to differ from anticipated results and have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and
operating results. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, macro-economic factors that could have a negative effect on general retail activity, as well as the Company’s inability to manage costs associated with store
construction and operation, inability to sell third-party products at adequate margins, failure to manage relationships with existing retail channel partners, more challenging environment in managing retail operations outside the U.S., costs
associated with unanticipated fluctuations in the value of retail inventory, and inability to obtain and renew leases in quality retail locations at a reasonable cost. 
 
Investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company’s ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. 
 
The Company has invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties,
including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy, inadequate return of capital, and unidentified issues not discovered in the Company’s due
diligence. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and initiatives will be successful and will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating
results. 
 
The Company’s future operating performance depends on the performance of distributors, carriers, and other resellers. 
 
The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, value-added resellers, and cataloguers, many of whom distribute
products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells many of its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to end-users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online and retail
stores. iPhone is distributed through the Company, its cellular network carriers’ distribution channels, and certain third-party resellers. 
 
Many
resellers operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected in the past by weak economic conditions. Some resellers have perceived the expansion of the Company’s direct sales as conflicting with their business interests as
distributors and resellers of the Company’s products. Such a perception could discourage resellers from investing resources in the distribution and sale of the Company’s products or lead them to limit or cease distribution of those
products. The Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if the financial condition of these resellers weakens, if resellers stopped distributing the Company’s products, or if uncertainty
regarding demand for the Company’s products caused resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Company’s products. The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing
selected resellers’ stores with Company employees and contractors and improving product placement displays. These programs could require a substantial investment while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue. 
 
The Company is exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of its investment portfolio. 
 
Although the Company has not recognized any material losses on its cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments, future declines in their market values could have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. Given the global nature of its business, the Company has investments both domestically and internationally. Additionally, the Company’s overall investment
portfolio is often concentrated in the financial sector, which has been negatively impacted by the recent market liquidity conditions. Credit ratings and pricing of these investments can be negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration or
losses, financial results, or other factors. As a result, the value or liquidity of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments could decline and result in a material impairment, which could have a material adverse effect on
the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
 


23 






Table of Contents


The Company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable and prepayments related to long-term supply
agreements. This risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. 
 
A substantial majority of the Company’s outstanding trade
receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade receivables resulting from the sale by the Company of components to vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the
Company. In addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements to secure supply of NAND flash memory. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade
receivables as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating
results. 
 
The Company is subject to risks associated with laws and regulations related to health, safety and environmental protection. 


The Company’s products and services, and the production and distribution of those goods and services, are subject to a variety of laws and regulations. These may
require the Company to offer customers the ability to return a product at the end of its useful life and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several
jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including various countries within Europe and Asia, certain Canadian provinces and certain states within the U.S. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature
of its operations and the thrust of such laws, there is no assurance such existing laws or future laws will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
Changes in the Company’s tax rates could affect its future results. 
 
The Company’s future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or
their interpretation. The Company is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these
examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.

 
The Company is subject to risks associated with the availability and coverage of insurance. 
 
For certain risks, the Company does not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. Because the Company retains some portion of its insurable
risks, and in some cases self-insures completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insured limits could have a material adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition and operating results.

---0001104659-06-084288---
Risk
Factors


Because of the following
factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company’s operating results and
financial condition, past financial performance should not be considered to be
a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use
historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods.


The matters relating to the investigation by the
Special Committee of the Board of Directors and the restatement of the Company’s
consolidated financial statements may result in additional litigation and governmental
enforcement actions.


On June 29, 2006, the Company announced that an
internal review had discovered irregularities related to the issuance of
certain stock option grants made between 1997 and 2001, including a grant to
its Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”), Steve Jobs. The Company also announced a
Special Committee of outside directors (“Special Committee”) had been formed
and had hired independent counsel to conduct a full investigation of the
Company’s past stock option granting practices. As described in the
Explanatory Note immediately preceding Part I, Item 1, and in Note 2 “Restatement
of Consolidated Financial Statements” in Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements in this Form 10-K, as a result of the internal review and
independent investigation, management has concluded, and the Audit and Finance
Committee agrees, that incorrect measurement dates were used for financial
accounting purposes for stock option grants made in 


20
 






certain prior periods. As a result, the Company has
recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense, and related tax
effects, with regard to certain past stock option grants, and the Company has restated
certain previously filed financial statements included in this Form 10-K.


The internal review, the independent investigation,
and related activities have required the Company to incur substantial expenses
for legal, accounting, tax and other professional services, have diverted
management’s attention from the Company’s business, and could in the future harm
its business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


While the Company believes it has made appropriate
judgments in determining the correct measurement dates for its stock option
grants, the SEC may disagree with the manner in which the Company has accounted
for and reported, or not reported, the financial impact. Accordingly, there is
a risk the Company may have to further restate its prior financial statements,
amend prior filings with the SEC, or take other actions not currently
contemplated.


The Company’s past stock option granting practices and
the restatement of prior financial statements have exposed the Company to
greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government
enforcement actions. As described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings”,
several derivative complaints and a class action complaint have been filed in
state and federal courts against the Company’s directors and certain of its
executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to stock option grants.
The Company has provided the results of its internal review and independent
investigation to the SEC and the United States Attorney’s Office for the
Northern District of California, and in that regard the Company has responded
to informal requests for documents and additional information. The Company
intends to continue full cooperation. No assurance can be given regarding the
outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings or government enforcement
actions relating to the Company’s past stock option practices. The resolution
of these matters will be time consuming, expensive, and will distract
management from the conduct of the Company’s business. Furthermore, if the
Company is subject to adverse findings in litigation, regulatory proceedings or
government enforcement actions, the Company could be required to pay damages or
penalties or have other remedies imposed, which could harm its business,
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.


In August 2006, the
Company received a NASDAQ Staff Determination letter stating that, as a result
of the delayed filing of the Company’s Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended July 1, 2006 (the “Third Quarter Form 10-Q”), the Company
was not in compliance with the filing requirements for continued listing as set
forth in Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14) and was therefore subject to
delisting from the NASDAQ Stock Market. On October 24, 2006, the
NASDAQ Listing Qualifications Panel granted the Company’s request for continued
listing, subject to the Company filing the Third Quarter Form 10-Q,
and any required restatements, with the SEC by December 29, 2006. On December 29,
2006, the Company filed the Third Quarter Form 10-Q with the SEC. With
the filing of this Form 10-K, the Company believes that it has
remedied its non-compliance with Marketplace Rule 4310(c)(14), subject to
NASDAQ’s affirmative completion of its compliance protocols and its
notification of the Company accordingly. However, if the SEC disagrees with the
manner in which the Company has accounted for and reported, or not reported,
the financial impact of past stock option grants, there could be further delays
in filing subsequent SEC reports that might result in delisting of the Company’s
common stock from the NASDAQ Global Select Market.


Unfavorable results
of legal proceedings could adversely affect the Company’s results of
operations.


The Company is subject to
various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed in Part I, Item 3
of this Form 10-K. The Company is also subject to certain other
legal proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of
business and which have not been fully adjudicated. Results of legal
proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. In addition, litigation may be
disruptive to the Company’s normal 


21
 






business operations. Should
the Company fail to prevail in certain legal matters, the Company’s financial
condition, liquidity, or results of operations could be adversely affected.


Economic conditions and political events could
adversely affect the demand for the Company’s products and the financial health
of its suppliers, distributors, and resellers.


The Company’s operating
performance depends significantly on economic conditions in the U.S. and
abroad. At times in the past, demand for the Company’s products has been
negatively impacted by difficult global economic conditions. Uncertainty about
future economic conditions makes it difficult to forecast future demand for the
Company’s products and related operating results. Should global and/or regional
economic conditions deteriorate, demand for the Company’s products could be
adversely affected, as could the financial health of its suppliers,
distributors, and resellers.


War, terrorism, public health issues, and other
circumstances could disrupt supply, delivery, or demand of products, which
could negatively affect the Company’s operations and performance.


War, terrorism, public health issues, and other
business interruptions, whether in the U.S. or abroad, have caused and could
cause damage or disruption to international 
commerce
and global economy, and thus may have a strong negative impact on the global
economy, 
the Company, and the Company’s suppliers or customers. The
Company’s major business operations are subject to interruption by earthquake,
other natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks and other
hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its
control. The majority of the Company’s research and development activities, its
corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical
business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing
vendors, are located near major seismic faults. Because the Company does not
carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses, the Company’s
operating results and financial condition could be materially adversely
affected in the event of a major earthquake or other natural or man-made
disaster.


Although it is impossible
to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, such events
could result in a decrease in demand for the Company’s products, make it
difficult or impossible for the Company to deliver products to its customers or
to receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies
in the Company’s supply chain. In addition, should major public health issues
including pandemics arise, the Company could be negatively affected by more
stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in the
availability of freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of
products between various regions, delays in production ramps of new products,
and disruptions in the operations of the Company’s manufacturing vendors and
component suppliers. The Company’s operating results and financial condition
have been, and in the future may be, adversely affected by such events.


The market for personal computers and related
peripherals and services, as well as digital music devices and related
services, is highly competitive. If the Company is unable to effectively
compete in these markets, its results of operations could be adversely affected.


The personal computer industry is highly competitive
and is characterized by aggressive pricing practices, downward pressure on
gross margins, frequent introduction of new products, short product life
cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product
price/performance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological and product
advancements by competitors, price sensitivity on the part of consumers, and a
large number of competitors. Price competition in the market for personal computers
and related peripherals has been particularly intense as competitors who sell
Windows and Linux based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and
lowered their product margins for personal computing products. The Company’s
results of operations and financial condition have been, and in the future may
continue to be, adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing
pressures and downward pressures on gross margins.


22
 






The personal computer industry has also been
characterized by rapid technological advances in software functionality,
hardware performance, and features based on existing or emerging industry
standards. Further, as the personal computer industry and its customers place
more reliance on the Internet, an increasing number of Internet devices that
are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers may compete for
market share with the Company’s existing products. Several competitors of the
Company have targeted certain of the Company’s key market segments, including
consumer, education, professional and consumer digital video editing, and
design and publishing. Several of the Company’s competitors have introduced
digital music products and/or online stores offering digital music distribution
that mimic many of the unique design, technical features, and solutions of the
Company’s products. The Company has a significant number of competitors, many
of whom have broader product lines and larger installed customer bases than
those of the Company. Additionally, there has been a trend towards
consolidation in the personal computer industry that has resulted in larger and
potentially stronger competitors in the Company’s markets.


The Company is currently the only maker of hardware
using the Mac OS. The Mac OS has a minority market share in the personal
computer market, which is dominated by makers of computers utilizing competing
operating systems, including Windows and Linux. The Company’s future operating
results and financial condition are substantially dependent on its ability to
continue to develop improvements to the Macintosh platform to maintain
perceived design and functional advantages over competing platforms. Additionally,
if unauthorized copies of the Mac OS are used on other companies’ hardware
products and result in decreased demand for the Company’s hardware products,
the Company’s results of operations may be adversely affected.


The Company is currently focused on market
opportunities related to digital music distribution and related consumer
electronic devices, including iPods. The Company faces significant competition
from other companies promoting their own digital music products including MP3
players, music enabled cell phones, free peer-to-peer music and video services,
and free streaming of digital content via the Internet. These competitors
include both new entrants with different market approaches, such as
subscription services models, and also larger companies that may have
significant technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources, as well as
established hardware, software, and digital content supplier relationships.
Failure to effectively compete could negatively affect the Company’s operating
results and financial position. The Company expects competition in this space
to intensify as competitors attempt to imitate the Company’s approach to
tightly integrating these components within their individual offerings or work
more collaboratively with each other to offer solutions that are more
integrated than those they offer currently. Some of these current and potential
competitors have substantial resources and may be able to provide such products
and services at little or no profit or even at a loss to compete with the
Company’s offerings. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to
continue to provide products and services that effectively compete in these
markets. The Company may also have to respond to price competition by lowering
prices and/or increasing features which could adversely affect the Company’s
music product gross margins as well as overall Company gross margins.


The Company also faces
significant competition in the U.S. education market. U.S. elementary and
secondary schools, as well as college and university customers, remain a core
market for the Company. In an effort to gain market share and remain
competitive, the Company will continue to pursue one-to-one (1:1) learning
solutions in education. 
1:1 learning
solutions
 typically consist of a
portable computer for every student and teacher along with the installation of
a wireless network
. 
These 1:1
learning solutions and other strategic sales are generally priced more
aggressively and could result in significantly less profitability or financial
losses, particularly for larger deals. Although the Company believes it has
taken certain steps to strengthen its position in the education market, there
can be no assurance that the Company will be able to increase or maintain its
share of the education market or execute profitably on large strategic 


23
 






arrangements. Failure to
do so may have an adverse impact on the Company’s operating results and
financial condition.


Future operating results are dependent upon the
Company’s ability to obtain a sufficient supply of components, including
microprocessors, some of which are in short supply or available only from
limited sources.


Although most components
essential to the Company’s business are generally available from multiple
sources, certain key components including microprocessors and ASICs are
currently obtained by the Company from single or limited sources. Some key
components (including without limitation DRAM, NAND flash-memory, and TFT-LCD
flat-panel displays), while currently available to the Company from multiple
sources, are at times subject to industry-wide availability and pricing pressures.
In addition, new products introduced by the Company often initially utilize
custom components obtained from only one source until the Company has evaluated
whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers.
In situations where a component or product utilizes new technologies, initial
capacity constraints may exist until such time as the suppliers’ yields have
matured. The Company and other producers in the personal computer and consumer
electronics industries also compete for various components with other
industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The
Company uses some components that are not common to the rest of the personal
computer or consumer electronics industries. Continued availability of these
components may be affected if producers decided to concentrate on the
production of components other than those customized to meet the Company’s
requirements. If the supply of a key component were delayed or constrained on a
new or existing product, the Company’s results of operations and financial
condition could be adversely affected.


The Company must successfully manage frequent product
introductions and transitions to remain competitive and effectively stimulate
customer demand.


Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of
the personal computer and consumer electronics industries, which are
characterized by dynamic customer demand patterns and rapid technological
advances, the Company must continually introduce new products and technologies,
enhance existing products to remain competitive, and effectively stimulate
customer demand for new products and upgraded versions of the Company’s
existing products. The success of new product introductions is dependent on a
number of factors, including market acceptance; the Company’s ability to manage
the risks associated with product transitions, including the transition to
Intel-based Macintosh computers, and production ramp issues; the availability
of application software for new products; the effective management of purchase
commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand; the
availability of products in appropriate quantities and costs to meet
anticipated demand; and the risk that new products may have quality or other
defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot
determine in advance the ultimate effect new products will have on its sales or
results of operations.


In June 2005, the
Company announced its plan to begin using Intel microprocessors in its
computers. During 2006, the Company introduced new Intel-based models of the
MacBook Pro, MacBook, Mac Pro, iMac, and Mac mini computers. The Company’s
transition to Intel microprocessors for Macintosh systems was completed in August 2006,
and its transition for Xserve was completed in November 2006. This
transition has been and will continue to be subject to numerous risks and
uncertainties including the timely innovation and delivery of related hardware
and software products to support Intel microprocessors, market acceptance of
Intel-based Macintosh computers, and the development and availability on
acceptable terms of components and services essential to enable the Company to
timely deliver Intel-based Macintosh computers. In addition, the Company is
dependent on third-party software developers such as Microsoft and Adobe to
timely develop current and future applications that run on Intel-based
Macintosh computers. Universal versions of Microsoft Office and Adobe’s
Creative Suite applications are not currently available. Additionally,
there can be no assurance that the Company will be able to maintain its 


24
 






historical gross margin
percentages on its products, including Intel-based Macintosh computers, which
may adversely impact the Company’s results of operations.


The Company’s products from time to time experience
quality problems that can result in decreased net sales and operating profits.


The Company sells highly
complex hardware and software products that can contain defects in design and
manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as
those sold by the Company, often contain “bugs” that can unexpectedly interfere
with the operation of the software. Defects may also occur in components and
products the Company purchases from third-parties. There can be no assurance
that the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware and
software it sells. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, loss of
reputation, and significant warranty and other expense to remedy.


Because orders for components, and in some cases
commitments to purchase components, must be placed in advance of customer
orders, the Company faces substantial inventory risk.


The Company records a write-down for inventories of
components and products that have become obsolete or are in excess of
anticipated demand or net realizable value and accrues necessary reserves for
cancellation fees for orders of products and components that have been
cancelled. Although the Company believes its inventory and related provisions
are currently adequate, given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product
obsolescence in the computer and consumer electronics industries and the
transition to Intel-based Macintosh computers, no assurance can be given that
the Company will not incur additional inventory and related charges. In
addition, such charges have had, and may have, a material effect on the Company’s
financial position and results of operations.


The Company must order
components for its products and build inventory in advance of product
shipments. Because the Company’s markets are volatile and subject to rapid
technology and price changes, and because of the transition to Intel-based
Macintosh computers, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and
produce or order from third parties excess or insufficient inventories of
particular products. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally
acquired through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open
orders based on projected demand information. Such purchase commitments
typically cover the Company’s forecasted component and manufacturing
requirements for periods ranging from 30 to 150 days. The Company’s operating
results and financial condition have been in the past and may in the future be
materially adversely affected by the Company’s ability to manage its inventory
levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns.


The Company is dependent on manufacturing and
logistics services provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside
of the U.S.


Most of the Company’s products are manufactured in
whole or in part by third-party manufacturers. In addition, the Company has
outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. While outsourcing
arrangements may lower the cost of operations, they also reduce the Company’s
direct control over production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect
such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of the products
manufactured or services rendered, or the flexibility of the Company to respond
to changing market conditions. In addition, the Company is reliant on
third-party manufacturers to adhere to the Company’s supplier code of conduct. Moreover,
although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for
warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain at least initially
responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product
defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether
pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could
adversely affect the Company’s future operating results and financial
condition.


25
 






Final assembly of products
sold by the Company is currently performed in the Company’s manufacturing
facility in Cork, Ireland, and by external vendors in Fremont, California;
Fullerton, California; Taiwan; the Republic of Korea; the People’s Republic of
China; and the Czech Republic. Currently, manufacturing of many of the
components used in the Company’s products is performed by third-party vendors
in Taiwan, China, Japan, Korea, and Singapore. Final assembly of substantially
all of the Company’s portable products, including MacBook Pros, MacBooks, and
iPods, is performed by third-party vendors in China. If for any reason
manufacturing or logistics in any of these locations is disrupted by regional
economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues,
or due to information technology system failures or military actions, the Company’s
results of operations and financial condition could be adversely affected.


The Company’s future operating performance is
dependent on the performance of distributors and other resellers of the Company’s
products.


The Company distributes its products through
wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, and cataloguers, many
of whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. In addition, the
Company sells many of its products and resells certain third-party products in
most of its major markets directly to end-users, certain education customers,
and certain resellers through its online stores around the world and its retail
stores. Many of the Company’s resellers operate on narrow product margins and
have been negatively impacted in the past by weak economic conditions.
Considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit
insurance are outstanding with the Company’s distribution and retail channel
partners. The Company’s business and financial results could be adversely
affected if the financial condition of these resellers weakens, if resellers
within consumer channels were to cease distribution of the Company’s products,
or if uncertainty regarding demand for the Company’s products caused resellers
to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Company’s products. The Company
has invested and will continue to invest in various programs to enhance
reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers’ stores with Company
employees and contractors. These programs could require a substantial
investment from the Company, while providing no assurance of return or
incremental revenue to offset this investment.


Over the past several
years, an increasing proportion of the Company’s net sales have been made by
the Company directly to end-users through its online stores around the world
and through its retail stores in the U.S., Canada, Japan, and the U.K. Some of
the Company’s resellers have perceived this expansion of the Company’s direct
sales as conflicting with their own businesses and economic interests as
distributors and resellers of the Company’s products. Perception of such a
conflict could discourage the Company’s resellers from investing additional
resources in the distribution and sale of the Company’s products or lead them
to limit or cease distribution of the Company’s products. The Company’s
business and financial results could be adversely affected if expansion of its
direct sales to end-users causes some or all of its resellers to cease or limit
distribution of the Company’s products.


The Company relies
on third-party digital content, which may not be available to the Company on
commercially reasonable terms or at all.


The Company contracts with third parties to offer
their digital content to customers through the Company’s iTunes Store. The
Company pays substantial fees to obtain the rights to offer to its customers
this third-party digital content. The Company’s licensing arrangements with
these third-party content providers are short-term in nature and do not guarantee
the future renewal of these arrangements at commercially reasonable terms, if
at all. Certain parties in the music industry have consolidated and formed
alliances, which could limit the availability and increase the fees required to
offer digital content to customers through the iTunes Store. Some third-party
content providers currently or may in the future offer music products and
services that compete with the Company’s music products and services, and could
take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license
their digital content in the future. Further, other distributors of third-party
content or third-party content owners may seek to limit 


26
 






the Company’s access to or increase the total cost of
such content. If the Company is unable to continue to offer a wide variety of
digital content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue
to expand its geographic reach outside the U.S., then sales and gross margins
of the Company’s iTunes Store, as well as related hardware and peripherals,
including iPods, may be adversely affected.


Third-party content
providers and artists require that the Company provide certain digital rights
management (“DRM”) solutions and other security mechanisms. If the requirements
from content providers or artists change, then the Company may be required to
further develop or license technology to address such new rights and
requirements. In addition, certain countries have passed legislation or may
propose legislation that would force the Company to license its DRM solutions
so that content would be interoperable with competitor devices, which could
lessen the protection of content subjecting it to piracy and could affect
arrangements with the Company’s content suppliers. There is no assurance the
Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost
and in a timely manner, if at all, which could have a materially adverse effect
on the Company’s operating results and financial position.


The Company’s future performance is dependent upon
support from third-party software developers. If third-party software
applications cease to be developed or available for the Company’s hardware
products, then customers may choose not to buy the Company’s products.


The Company believes decisions by customers to
purchase the Company’s personal computers, as opposed to Windows-based
systems, are often based on the availability of third-party software
applications such as Microsoft Office. The Company also believes the
availability of third-party application software for the Company’s
hardware products depends in part on third-party developers’ perception
and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining, and upgrading
such software for the Company’s products versus software for the larger Windows
market or growing Linux market. This analysis may be based on factors such as
the perceived strength of the Company and its products, the anticipated
potential revenue that may be generated, continued acceptance by customers of Mac
OS X, and the costs of developing such software products. To the extent the
minority market share held by the Company in the personal computer market has
caused software developers to question the Company’s prospects in the personal
computer market, developers could be less inclined to develop new application
software or upgrade existing software for the Company’s products and more
inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for the
larger Windows market or growing Linux market. The Company’s recent
announcement that it plans to add a feature to the next version of Mac OS X
that will enable Intel-based Macintosh systems to run Windows XP may deter
developers from creating software applications for Mac OS X if such
applications are available for the Windows platform. Moreover, there can be no
assurance software developers will continue to develop software for Mac OS X on
a timely basis or at all.


In June 2005, the Company announced its plan to
begin using Intel microprocessors in its computers. During 2006, the Company
introduced new Intel-based models of the MacBook Pro, MacBook, Mac Pro, iMac,
and Mac mini computers. The Company’s transition to Intel microprocessors for
Macintosh systems was completed in August 2006, and its transition for
Xserve was completed in November 2006. The Company depends on third-party
software developers to timely develop current and future applications that run
on Intel microprocessors. Universal versions of Microsoft Office and Adobe’s
Creative Suite applications are not currently available. The lack of
applications that run on Intel-based Macintosh systems, including Microsoft
Office and Adobe Creative Suite, could have a materially adverse effect on the
Company’s operating results and financial position.


In addition, past and
future development by the Company of its own software applications and
solutions may negatively impact the decision of software developers, such as
Microsoft and Adobe, to develop, maintain, and upgrade similar or competitive software
for the Company’s products. The Company currently markets and sells a variety
of software applications for use by professionals, consumers, and education
customers that could influence the decisions of third-party software developers
to develop or 


27
 






upgrade
Macintosh-compatible software products. Software applications currently
marketed by the Company include software for professional film and video
editing, professional compositing and visual effects for large format film and
video productions, professional music production and music post production,
professional and consumer DVD encoding and authoring, professional digital
photo editing and workflow management, consumer digital video and digital photo
editing and management, digital music management, desktop-based database
management, word processing, and high-quality presentations. Discontinuance of
third-party software products for the Macintosh platform could have an adverse
effect on the Company’s net sales and results of operations.


The Company’s business relies on access to patents and
intellectual property obtained from third parties, and the Company’s future
results could be adversely affected if it is alleged or found to have infringed
on the intellectual property rights of others.


Many of the Company’s products are designed to include
intellectual property obtained from third parties. While it may be necessary in
the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its
products and business methods, the Company believes that based upon past
experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on
commercially reasonable terms. However, there can be no assurance that the
necessary licenses would be available or available on acceptable terms.


Because of technological
changes in the computer and consumer electronics industries, current extensive
patent coverage, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible
certain components of the Company’s products and business methods may
unknowingly infringe existing patents of others. The Company has from time to
time been notified that it may be infringing certain patents or other
intellectual property rights of others. Responding to such claims, regardless
of their merit, can be time-consuming, result in significant expenses, and
cause the diversion of management and technical personnel. Several pending
claims are in various stages of evaluation. The Company may consider the
desirability of entering into licensing agreements in certain of these cases.
However, no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on
acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. In the event there is a
temporary or permanent injunction entered prohibiting the Company from
marketing or selling certain of its products or a successful claim of
infringement against the Company requiring it to pay royalties to a
third-party, the Company’s future operating results and financial condition
could be adversely affected. Information regarding certain claims and
litigation involving the Company related to alleged patent infringement and
other matters is set forth in Part I, Item 3 of this Form 10-K.
In the opinion of management, the Company does not have a potential liability
for damages or royalties from any current legal proceedings or claims related
to the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others
that would individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on
its results of operations or financial condition. However, the results of such
legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail
to prevail in any of the matters related to infringement of patent or other
intellectual property rights of others described in Part I, Item 3 of this
Form 10-K or should several of these matters be resolved against the
Company in the same reporting period, the operating results of a particular
reporting period could be materially adversely affected.


The Company’s retail initiative has required and will
continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and is
subject to numerous risks and uncertainties.


Through September 30, 2006, the Company had
opened 165 retail stores. The Company’s retail initiative has required
substantial investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information
systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into
substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with lease terms
ranging from 5 to 20 years, the majority of which are for 10 years. The Company
could incur substantial costs should it choose to terminate these commitments
or close individual stores. Such costs could adversely affect the Company’s
results of operations and financial condition. Additionally, a relatively high
proportion of the Retail segment’s costs are fixed because of personnel costs, 


28
 






depreciation of store construction costs, and lease
expense. As a result, significant losses would result should the Retail segment
experience a significant decline in sales for any reason.


Certain of the Company’s stores
have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues that 
function
as vehicles for general corporate marketing, corporate events, and brand
awareness. Because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these
stores require substantially more investment in 
equipment and leasehold improvements than the Company’s more typical
retail stores. The Company has opened eight such stores through September 2006.
Because of their location and size, these high-profile stores also require the
Company to enter into substantially larger operating lease commitments compared
to those required for its more typical stores. Current leases on such locations
have terms ranging from 10 to 14 years with total remaining commitments per location
ranging from $4 million to $33 million. Closure or poor performance of one of
these high-profile stores could have a significant negative impact on the
Company’s results of operations and financial condition.


Many of the general risks
and uncertainties the Company faces could also have an adverse impact on its
Retail segment. Also, many factors unique to retail operations present
 risks and uncertainties, 
some of which
are beyond the Company’s control, that could adversely affect the Retail
segment’s future results, cause its actual results to differ from those
currently expected, and/or have an adverse effect on the Company’s consolidated
results of operations. Potential risks and uncertainties unique to retail
operations that could have an adverse impact on the Retail segment include,
among other things, macro-economic factors that have a negative impact on
general retail activity; inability to manage costs associated with store
construction and operation; inability to sell third-party hardware and software
products at adequate margins; failure to manage relationships with existing
retail channel partners; lack of experience in managing retail operations
outside the U.S.; costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations in the value
of Apple-branded and third-party retail inventory; and inability to obtain and
renew leases in quality retail locations at a reasonable cost.


Investment in new business strategies and initiatives
could disrupt the Company’s ongoing business and may present risks not originally
contemplated.


The Company has and may in
the future invest in new business strategies or engage in acquisitions that
complement the Company’s strategic direction and product roadmap. Such
endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including
distraction of management’s attention away from current business operations;
insufficient revenue generation to offset liabilities assumed and expenses
associated with the strategy; and unidentified issues not discovered in the
Company’s due diligence process. Because these new ventures are inherently
risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and initiatives will be
successful and will not materially adversely affect the Company’s business,
operating results or financial condition.


Declines in the sales of the Company’s professional
products, software, accessories, or service and support contracts, or increases
in sales of consumer products, including iPods, may negatively impact the
Company’s gross margin and operating margin percentages.


The Company’s professional products, including MacBook
Pro and Mac Pro systems, software, accessories, and service and support
contracts, generally have higher gross margins than the Company’s consumer
products, including the iMac, Mac mini, MacBook, iPod, and content from the
iTunes Store. A shift in sales mix away from higher margin professional
products towards lower margin consumer products could adversely affect the
Company’s future gross margin and operating margin percentages. The Company’s
traditional professional customers may choose to buy consumer products,
specifically the iMac and MacBook, instead of professional products.
Professional users may choose to buy the iMac due to its relative price
performance and unique design featuring a flat panel screen. Professional users
may also choose to purchase MacBooks instead of the Company’s
professional-oriented portable products due to their price performance and
screen size. Additionally, significant future growth in iPod sales without 


29
 






corresponding growth in higher margin product sales
could also reduce gross margin and operating margin percentages.


The Company expects
its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate for a variety of
reasons.


The Company’s profit
margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company’s
direct sales, primarily through its retail and online stores, generally have
higher associated profitability than its indirect sales. As a result, the
Company’s gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall
profitability may be adversely impacted as a result of a shift in product,
geographic or channel mix, or new product announcements, including the
transition to Intel-based Macintosh computers. In addition, the Company
generally sells more product during the third month of each quarter than it
does during either of the first two months, a pattern typical in the personal
computer and consumer electronics industries. This sales pattern can produce
pressure on the Company’s internal infrastructure during the third month of a
quarter and may adversely impact the Company’s ability to predict its financial
results accurately. Furthermore, the Company has typically experienced greater
net sales in the first and fourth fiscal quarters compared to other quarters in
the fiscal year due to seasonal demand related to the holiday season and the
beginning of the school year. Developments late in a quarter, such as
lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’s products, an internal systems
failure, or failure of one of the Company’s key logistics, components
suppliers, or manufacturing partners, could have significant adverse impacts on
the Company and its results of operations and financial condition.


The Company has higher research and development and
selling, general and administrative costs, as a percentage of revenue, than
many of its competitors.


The Company’s ability to
compete successfully and maintain attractive gross margins and revenue growth
is heavily dependent upon its ability to ensure a continuing and timely flow of
innovative and competitive products and technologies to the marketplace. As a
result, the Company generally incurs higher research and development costs as a
percentage of revenue than its competitors who sell personal computers based on
other operating systems. Many of these competitors seek to compete aggressively
on price and maintain very low cost structures. Further, as a result of the
expansion of the Company’s Retail segment and costs associated with marketing
the Company’s brand including its unique operating system, the Company incurs
higher selling costs as a percentage of revenue than many of its competitors.
If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new
products with attractive gross margins, its results of operations may be
materially adversely affected by its operating cost structure.


The Company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts
receivable and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements. This risk is
heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen.


The Company distributes
its products through third-party computer resellers and retailers and directly
to certain educational institutions and commercial customers. A substantial
majority of the Company’s outstanding trade receivables are not covered by
collateral or credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade
receivables from certain of its manufacturing vendors resulting from the sale
by the Company of raw material components to these manufacturing vendors who manufacture
sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. In addition, the
Company has entered into long-term supply agreements to secure supply of NAND
flash-memory and has prepaid a total of $1.25 billion under these agreements.
While the Company has procedures in place to monitor and limit exposure to
credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables as well as long-term
prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will be effective in
limiting its credit risk and avoiding losses. Additionally, if the global
economy or regional economies deteriorate, the Company would be more likely to
incur a material loss or losses as a result of the weakening financial
condition of one or more of its customers or manufacturing vendors.


30
 






The Company’s
success depends largely on its ability to attract and retain key personnel.


Much of the future success
of the Company depends on the continued service and availability of skilled
personnel, including its Chief Executive Officer, members of its executive
team, and those in technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced
personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand and
competition for their talents is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley,
where the majority of the Company’s key employees are located. The Company has
relied on its ability to grant stock options as one mechanism for recruiting
and retaining this highly skilled talent. Recent accounting regulations
requiring the expensing of stock options have resulted in increased stock-based
compensation expense, which may cause the Company to reduce the amount of
stock-based awards issued to employees. There can be no assurance that the
Company will continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel.


The Company is subject
to risks associated with the availability and coverage of insurance.


For certain risks, the
Company does not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or
availability. Because the Company retains some portion of its insurable risks,
and in some cases self insures completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in
excess of insured limits may have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
results of operations and financial position.


Failure of information technology systems and breaches
in the security of data upon which the Company relies could adversely affect the
Company’s future operating results.


Information technology
system failures and breaches of data security could disrupt the Company’s
ability to function in the normal course of business by potentially causing
delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding the manufacture or shipment
of products, or resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or
Company information. Management has taken steps to address these concerns for its
own systems by implementing sophisticated network security and internal control
measures. However, there can be no assurance that a system failure or data
security breach of the Company or a third-party vendor will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s results of operations.


The Company’s
business is subject to the risks of international operations.


A large portion of the Company’s revenue is derived
from its international operations. As a result, the Company’s operating results
and financial condition could be significantly affected by risks associated
with international activities, including economic and labor conditions,
political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries),
and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the local currency in which
the products are sold and goods and services are purchased. The Company’s
primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to
non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and
certain parts of Asia and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred
throughout the world. Weaknesses in foreign currencies, particularly the
Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely impact consumer demand for the
Company’s products and the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s foreign currency
denominated sales. Conversely, a strengthening in these and other foreign
currencies can cause the Company to modify international pricing and affect the
value of the Company’s foreign denominated sales, and in some cases, may also
increase the cost to the Company of some product components.


Margins on sales of the Company’s products in foreign
countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from
foreign suppliers, can be adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and
antidumping penalties.


Derivative instruments, such as foreign exchange
forward and option positions have been utilized by the Company to hedge
exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such
hedging activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial
impact resulting from unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates.


31
 






Further information related
to the Company’s global market risks may be found in Part II, Item 7A of
this Form 10-K under the subheading “Foreign Currency Risk” and may
be found in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K at Notes 1 and 3
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


The Company is
subject to risks associated with environmental regulations.


Production and marketing
of products in certain states and countries may subject the Company to
environmental and other regulations including, in some instances, the
requirement to provide customers the ability to return product at the end of
its useful life, and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or
recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have recently been passed
in several jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including various
European Union member countries, Japan and certain states within the U.S.
Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects in the
future based on the nature of its operations and the thrust of such laws, there
is no assurance such existing laws or future laws will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company’s financial condition, liquidity, or results of
operations.


Changes in
accounting rules could affect the Company’s future operating results.


Financial statements are
prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
These principles are subject to interpretation by various governing bodies,
including the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) and the SEC, who
create and interpret appropriate accounting standards. A change from current
accounting standards could have a significant effect on the Company’s results
of operations. In December 2004, the FASB issued new guidance that
addresses the accounting for share-based payments, Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123 (revised 2004) (“SFAS No. 123R”),

Share-Based Payment
, which the Company
adopted in 2006. In 2006, stock-based compensation expense reduced diluted
earnings per common share by approximately $0.14. Although the adoption of SFAS
No. 123R is expected to continue to have a significant impact on the
Company’s results of operations, future changes to various assumptions used to
determine the fair-value of awards issued or the amount and type of equity
awards granted create uncertainty as to the amount of future stock-based
compensation expense.


Changes in the
Company’s tax rates could affect its future results.


The Company’s future
effective tax rates could be favorably or unfavorably affected by changes in
the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in
the valuation of the Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by
changes in tax laws or their interpretation. In addition, the Company is
subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal
Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the
likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine
the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance the
outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on
the Company’s results of operations and financial condition.


The Company’s stock
price may be volatile.


The Company’s stock has at
times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations
between its actual and anticipated financial results and as a result of
announcements by the Company and its competitors. The stock market has
experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market
price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to the
operating performance of these companies. Furthermore, the Company believes its
stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. If the
Company fails to meet these expectations its stock price may significantly
decline. In addition, increases in the Company’s stock price may result in
greater dilution of earnings per share.


32

---0000320193-19-000119---
', 'Risk Factors', '5']
['

No risk factor found for AAPL - 0000912057-99-010244
No risk factor found for AAPL - 0001193125-12-444068
---0000320193-17-000070---
', 'Risk Factors', '8']
['

No risk factor found for AAPL - 0001104659-05-058421
---0001193125-09-214859---
Risk Factors 
 
Because of
the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company’s financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not
use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 
 
Economic conditions could materially adversely
affect the Company. 
 
The Company’s operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions.
Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may continue to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values,
which could have a material negative effect on demand for the Company’s products and services. Demand also could differ materially from the Company’s expectations since the Company generally raises prices on goods and services sold outside
the U.S. to offset the effect of the strengthening of the U.S. dollar, a trend that has been very pronounced recently. Other factors that could influence demand include increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the real estate and
mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect demand for the
Company’s products and services and on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
In the event of
renewed financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in
the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. In addition, the risk remains that there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the
Company’s business, including the insolvency of key suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products resulting in product delays; inability of customers, including channel partners, to obtain
credit to finance purchases of the Company’s products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively impacting the Company’s treasury
operations. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges resulting from revaluations of debt and
equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Increased volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty would increase the risk
of the actual amounts realized in the future on the Company’s financial instruments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. 
 
 



13 






Table of Contents


Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the
volatility of the Company’s stock price. 
 
Global markets for personal computers, mobile communication devices, digital
music and video devices, and related peripherals and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological change. If the Company is unable to compete effectively in these markets, its financial condition and operating results could be
materially adversely affected. 
 
The Company competes in highly competitive global markets characterized by aggressive price
cutting, with resulting downward pressure on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price/performance characteristics, rapid adoption of
technological and product advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers. 
 
The Company’s
ability to compete successfully depends heavily on its ability to ensure a continuing and timely introduction of innovative new products and technologies to the marketplace. The Company believes it is unique in that it designs and develops nearly
the entire solution for its personal computers, mobile communication devices, and consumer electronics, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications, and related services. As a result, the Company must make significant
investments in research and development and as such, the Company currently holds a significant number of patents and copyrights and has registered and/or has applied to register numerous patents, trademarks and service marks. By contrast, many of
the Company’s competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins or if other companies infringe
on the Company’s intellectual property, the Company’s ability to maintain a competitive advantage could be negatively affected and its financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 
 
In the market for personal computers and peripherals, the Company faces a significant number of competitors, many of which have broader
product lines, lower priced products, and larger installed customer bases. Consolidation in this market has resulted in larger and potentially stronger competitors. Price competition has been particularly intense as competitors selling Windows-based
personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. The Company also faces increased competition in key market segments, including consumer, SMB, education, enterprise, government and creative markets. An increasing number
of Internet devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Company’s existing products. 
 
The Company is currently the only authorized maker of hardware using the Mac OS. The Mac OS has a minority market share in the personal computer market, which is dominated by
computer makers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. The Company’s financial condition and operating results depend substantially on the Company’s ability to continually improve the Mac platform to maintain functional
and design advantages. Use of unauthorized copies of the Mac OS on other companies’ hardware products may result in decreased demand for the Company’s hardware products, and could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial
condition and operating results. 
 
The Company is currently focused on certain mobile communication devices, such as iPhone,
consumer electronic devices, including the iPod family of digital music and video players and third-party digital content and applications distribution. The Company faces substantial competition from companies that have significant technical,
marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships. The Company also competes with illegitimate ways to obtain third-party digital content and applications. The Company
has only recently entered the mobile communications market, and many of its competitors in the mobile communications market have significantly greater experience, product breadth and distribution channels than the Company. Because some current and
potential competitors have substantial resources and experience and a lower cost structure, they may be able to provide such products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss. The Company also expects competition to intensify as
competitors attempt to

 
 


14 






Table of Contents



imitate the Company’s approach to providing these components seamlessly within their individual offerings or work collaboratively to offer integrated solutions. 
 
The Company currently receives subsidies from its exclusive and non-exclusive carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone. There
is no assurance that such subsidies will be continued at all or in the same amounts upon renewal of the Company’s agreements with these carriers or in agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. 
 
There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to provide products and services that compete effectively. 
 
To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions.

 
Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics
industries, the Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. The success of new product introductions
depends on a number of factors including but not limited to timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Company’s ability to manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp issues, the availability of
application software for new products, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities and costs to meet anticipated demand, and
the risk that new products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect of new product introductions and transitions on its financial condition and
operating results. 
 
The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk. 
 
The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated demand or net
realizable value and accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders of excess products and components. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an
asset may not be recoverable. If the Company determines that impairment has occurred, it records a write-down equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds its fair market value. Although the Company believes its inventory
and other asset related provisions are currently adequate, no assurance can be given that, given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the global personal computer, mobile communication, and consumer electronics industries, the
Company will not incur additional inventory or asset related charges. Such charges have, and could, materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally
acquired through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, open orders and, where appropriate, prepayments, in each case based on projected demand. Such purchase commitments typically cover forecasted component and manufacturing
requirements for 30 to 150 days. Because the Company’s markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient
inventories of components or products. The Company’s financial condition and operating results have been in the past and could be in the future materially adversely affected by the Company’s ability to manage its inventory levels and
respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns. 
 
Future operating results depend upon the Company’s ability
to obtain key components including but not limited to microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs at favorable prices and in sufficient quantities. 
 
Because the Company currently obtains certain key components including but not limited to microprocessors, enclosures, certain LCDs, certain optical drives, and ASICs, from single or limited sources, the
Company is

 
 


15 






Table of Contents



subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources including but not limited to NAND flash memory, DRAM and certain
LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company has entered into certain agreements for the supply of key components including but not limited to microprocessors, NAND flash memory,
DRAM and LCDs at favorable pricing, but there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements on similar favorable terms, or at all, upon expiration or otherwise obtain favorable pricing in the future. The follow-on
effects from the credit crisis on the Company’s key suppliers, referred to in “
Economic conditions could materially adversely affect the Company”
 above, which is incorporated herein by reference, also could affect the
Company’s ability to obtain key components. Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply shortages and/or price increases that could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating
results. The Company expects to experience decreases in its gross margin percentage in future periods, as compared to levels achieved during 2009 and 2008, due largely to the anticipated impact of product transitions, flat or reduced pricing on new
and innovative products that have higher cost structures, both expected and potential future cost increases for key components, a stronger U.S. dollar and higher logistical costs. For additional information refer to Part II, Item 7,
“Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” under the subheading “Gross Margin,” which is incorporated herein by reference. 
 
The Company and other participants in the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries compete for various
components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, mobile communication and consumer electronics industries.
The Company’s new products often utilize custom components available from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. When a component or product uses new
technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those
suppliers decided to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Company’s requirements. If the supply of a key single-sourced component for a new or existing product were delayed or
constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be
materially adversely affected. 
 
The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided
by third parties, many of whom are located outside of the U.S. 
 
Most of the Company’s components and products are
manufactured in whole or in part by a few third-party manufacturers. Many of these manufacturers are located outside of the U.S., and are concentrated in several general locations. The Company has also outsourced much of its transportation and
logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company’s direct control over production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity
of products or services, or the Company’s flexibility to respond to changing conditions. In addition, the Company relies on third-party manufacturers to adhere to the Company’s supplier code of conduct. Although arrangements with such
manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether
pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results. 
 
Final assembly of the Company’s products is currently performed in the Company’s manufacturing facility in Ireland, and by external vendors in California, Texas, China, the
Czech Republic and Korea. Currently, the supply and manufacture of many critical components is performed by sole-sourced third-party vendors in the U.S., China, Germany, Ireland, Israel Japan, Korea, Malaysia, the Netherlands, the Philippines,
Taiwan, Thailand and Singapore. Sole-sourced third-party vendors in China perform final assembly of substantially all of the

 
 


16 






Table of Contents



Company’s portable Mac products, iPhones, iPods and most of the Company’s desktop products. If manufacturing or logistics in these locations is disrupted for any reason, including
natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely
affected. 
 
The Company relies on third-party digital content and applications, which may not be available to the Company on
commercially reasonable terms or at all. 
 
The Company contracts with certain third parties to offer their digital content
and applications through the Company’s iTunes Store. The Company pays substantial fees to obtain the rights to audio and video content. The Company’s licensing arrangements with these third parties are short-term and do not guarantee the
continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. Some third-party content providers currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action to make it more difficult or impossible for
the Company to license their content in the future. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Company’s access to, or increase the total cost of, such content. If the Company is unable to continue to offer a wide
variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue to expand its geographic reach, the Company’s financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. 
 
Many third-party content providers require that the Company provide certain digital rights management (“DRM”) and other security
solutions. If these requirements change, the Company may have to develop or license new technology to provide these solutions. There is no assurance the Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a timely
manner. In addition, certain countries have passed or may propose legislation that would force the Company to license its DRM, which could lessen the protection of content and subject it to piracy and also could affect arrangements with the
Company’s content providers. 
 
The Company relies on access to third-party patents and intellectual property, and the
Company’s future results could be materially adversely affected if it is alleged or found to have infringed intellectual property rights. 
 
Many of the Company’s products are designed to include third-party intellectual property, and in the future the Company may need to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products
and business methods. Although the Company believes that, based on past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on reasonable terms, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on
acceptable terms or at all. 
 
Because of technological changes in the global personal computer, mobile communication and
consumer electronics industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of the Company’s products and business methods may unknowingly infringe the patents or other
intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, the Company has been notified that it may be infringing such rights. Regardless of merit, responding to such claims can consume significant time and expense. At present, the Company
is vigorously defending more than 47 patent infringement cases, 27 of which were filed during fiscal 2009, and several pending claims are in various stages of evaluation. In certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability of entering into
licensing agreements, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. If the Company is found to be infringing such rights, it may be required to pay substantial damages.
If there is a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing or selling certain products or a successful claim of infringement against the Company requires it to pay royalties to a third party, the Company’s financial
condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether it can develop non-infringing technology. While in management’s opinion the Company does not have a potential liability for damages or royalties from
any known current legal proceedings or claims related to the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights that would individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results, the
results of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Should

 
 


17 






Table of Contents



the Company fail to prevail in any of the matters related to infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others or should several of these matters be resolved against the
Company in the same reporting period, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 
 
With the June 2007 introduction of iPhone, the Company has begun to compete with mobile communication device companies that hold significant patent portfolios. Regardless of the scope or validity of
such patents or the merits of any potential patent claims by competitors, the Company may have to engage in protracted litigation, enter into expensive agreements or settlements and/or modify its products. Any of these events could
have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company’s future
performance depends on support from third-party software developers. If third-party software applications and services cease to be developed and maintained for the Company’s products, customers may choose not to buy the Company’s products.

 
The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardware products, including its Macs, iPhones and iPods, are
often based to a certain extent on the availability of third-party software applications and services. There is no assurance that third-party developers will continue to develop and maintain applications and services for the Company’s products
on a timely basis or at all, and discontinuance or delay of these applications and services could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
With respect to its Mac products, the Company believes the availability of third-party software applications and services depends in part on the developers’ perception and
analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company’s products compared to Windows-based products. This analysis may be based on factors such as the perceived strength of the Company and its
products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, continued acceptance by customers of Mac OS X, and the costs of developing such applications and services. If the Company’s minority share of the global personal computer market causes
developers to question the Company’s prospects, developers could be less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Company’s products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for the larger
Windows market. The Company’s development of its own software applications and services may also negatively affect the decisions of third-party developers, such as Microsoft, Adobe and Google, to develop, maintain, and upgrade similar or
competitive software and services for the Company’s products. Mac OS X Version 10.5 Leopard (“Mac OS X Leopard”), which became available in October 2007, includes a new feature that enables Intel-based Mac systems to run Microsoft
Windows XP and Windows Vista operating systems. This feature may deter developers from creating software applications for Mac OS X if such applications are already available for the Windows platform. 
 
With respect to iPhone and iPod touch, the Company relies on the continued availability and development of compelling and innovative
software applications. Unlike third-party software applications for Mac products, the software applications for the iPhone and iPod touch platforms are distributed through a single distribution channel, the App Store. The absence of multiple
distribution channels, which are available for competing platforms, may limit the availability and acceptance of third-party applications by the Company’s customers, thereby causing developers to curtail significantly, or stop, development for
the Company’s platforms. In addition, iPhone and iPod touch are subject to rapid technological change, and, if third-party developers are unable to keep up with this pace of change, third-party applications might not successfully operate and
may result in dissatisfied customers. Further, if the Company develops its own software applications and services, such development may negatively affect the decisions of third-party developers to develop, maintain, and upgrade similar or
competitive applications for the iPhone and iPod touch platforms. As with applications for the Company’s Mac products, the availability and development of these applications also depend on developers’ perceptions and analysis of the
relative benefits of developing software for the Company’s products rather than its competitors’ products, including devices that use competing platforms. If developers focus their efforts on these competing platforms, the availability and
quality of applications for the Company’s devices may suffer. 
 
 


18 






Table of Contents


The Company’s future operating performance depends on the performance of
distributors, carriers and other resellers. 
 
The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national
and regional retailers, value-added resellers, and cataloguers, many of whom distribute products from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells many of its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to
end-users, certain education customers, and certain resellers through its online and retail stores. iPhone is distributed through the Company, its cellular network carriers’ distribution channels and certain third-party resellers. 


Many resellers operate on narrow operating margins and have been negatively affected in the past by weak economic conditions. Some
resellers have perceived the expansion of the Company’s direct sales as conflicting with their business interests as distributors and resellers of the Company’s products. Such a perception could discourage resellers from investing
resources in the distribution and sale of the Company’s products or lead them to limit or cease distribution of those products. The Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if the financial
condition of these resellers weakens, if resellers stopped distributing the Company’s products, or if uncertainty regarding demand for the Company’s products caused resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing of the Company’s
products. The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers’ stores with Company employees and contractors and improving product placement displays. These programs
could require a substantial investment while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue. 
 
The Company’s
retail business has required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. 
 
Through September 26, 2009, the Company had opened 273 retail stores. The Company’s retail stores have required substantial fixed investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information
systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with terms ranging from five to 20 years, the majority of which are for ten years. Certain stores have been designed and
built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and serve as vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than
the Company’s more typical retail stores. Due to the high fixed cost structure associated with the Retail segment, a decline in sales or the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease
termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and severance costs that could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
Many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, pose risks and uncertainties that could materially adversely affect the Company’s
financial condition and operating results. These risks and uncertainties include, among other things, macro-economic factors that could have a negative effect on general retail activity, as well as the Company’s inability to manage costs
associated with store construction and operation, inability to sell third-party products at adequate margins, failure to manage relationships with existing retail channel partners, more challenging environment in managing retail operations outside
the U.S., costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations in the value of retail inventory, and inability to obtain and renew leases in quality retail locations at a reasonable cost. 
 
Investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company’s ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. 
 
The Company has invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant
risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy, inadequate return of capital, and unidentified issues not discovered
in the Company’s due diligence. Because

 
 


19 






Table of Contents



these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and initiatives will be successful and will not materially adversely affect the Company’s financial
condition and operating results. 
 
The Company’s products and services experience quality problems from time to time
that can result in decreased sales and operating margin. 
 
The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products
and services that can contain defects in design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those sold by the Company, often contain “bugs” that can unexpectedly interfere with the software’s
intended operation. Defects may also occur in components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware, software and services it sells. Failure
to do so could result in lost revenue, harm to reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses, and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
In certain countries, including the U.S., the Company relies on a single cellular network carrier to provide service for iPhone. 


 
In the U.S., Germany, Spain, Ireland and certain other countries, the Company has contracted with a single carrier to provide
cellular network services for iPhone on an exclusive basis. If these exclusive carriers cannot successfully compete with other carriers in their markets on any basis, including but not limited to the quality and coverage of wireless voice and data
services, performance and timely build-out of advanced wireless networks, and pricing and other terms of conditions of end-user contracts, or if these exclusive carriers fail to promote iPhone aggressively or favor other handsets in their promotion
and sales activities or service plans, sales may be materially adversely affected. 
 
The Company is subject to risks
associated with laws, regulations and industry-imposed standards related to mobile communications devices. 
 
Laws and
regulations related to mobile communications devices in the many jurisdictions in which the Company operates are extensive and subject to change. Such changes, which could include but are not limited to restrictions on production, manufacture,
distribution, and use of the device, locking the device to a carrier’s network, or mandating the use of the device on more than one carrier’s network, could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating
results. 
 
Mobile communication devices, such as iPhone, are subject to certification and regulation by governmental and
standardization bodies, as well as by cellular network carriers for use on their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result in additional testing requirements, product modifications or delays in
product shipment dates, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company’s success depends largely on the continued service and availability of key personnel. 
 
Much of
the Company’s future success depends on the continued availability and service of key personnel, including its CEO, its executive team and highly skilled employees in technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel in the
technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley, where most of the Company’s key personnel are located. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to attract
and retain key personnel. 
 
In addition, the Company has relied on equity awards in the form of stock options and restricted
stock units as one means for recruiting and retaining highly skilled talent. Significant adverse volatility in the Company’s stock price could result in a stock option’s exercise price exceeding the underlying stock’s market value or
a significant deterioration in the value of restricted stock units granted, thus lessening the effectiveness of stock-based awards for retaining employees. 
 
 


20 






Table of Contents


Political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other
circumstances could materially adversely affect the Company. 
 
War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health
issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus could have a strong negative effect on the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers,
manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. The Company’s business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health
issues, and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Company’s products, make it difficult or impossible for the Company to make and deliver products to its customers, including channel partners, or to receive
components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in the Company’s supply chain. Should major public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could be negatively affected by more stringent employee travel
restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in the operations of the Company’s manufacturing
vendors and component suppliers. The majority of the Company’s research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and
manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. Because the Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations, the Company’s financial
condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake. 
 
The Company may
be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. 
 
Information
technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security caused by such factors including without limitation earthquakes, fire, theft, or other causes could disrupt the Company’s operations by causing delays or cancellation
of customer, including channel partner, orders, negatively affecting the Company’s online, iTunes, MobileMe and retail offerings and services, impeding the manufacture or shipment of products, processing transactions and reporting financial
results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or Company information, or damage to the Company’s reputation. While management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing sophisticated network security and internal
control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or loss or data security breach will not materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate for a variety of reasons. 
 
The Company’s profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company’s software, accessories, and
service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain of the Company’s other products. Gross margins on the Company’s hardware products vary across product lines and can change over time as a result of product
transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Company’s direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. In addition,
the Company’s gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be materially adversely impacted as a result of a shift in product, geographic or channel mix, new products, component cost increases,
strengthening U.S. dollar, or price competition. The Company has typically experienced greater net sales in the first and fourth fiscal quarters compared to the second and third fiscal quarters due to seasonal demand related to the holiday season
and the beginning of the school year, respectively. Furthermore, the Company sells more products from time-to-time during the third month of a quarter than it does during either of the first two months. Developments late in a quarter, such as
lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’s products, an internal systems failure, or failure of one of the Company’s key logistics, components supply, or manufacturing partners, could have a material adverse impact on the
Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
 


21 






Table of Contents


The Company’s stock price continues to be volatile. 
 
The Company’s stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility due to a number of factors, including but not limited to
variations between its actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by the Company and its competitors, and uncertainty about current global economic conditions. The stock market as a whole also has experienced extreme price and volume
fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performance. Furthermore, the Company believes its stock price reflects high future growth and
profitability expectations. If the Company fails to meet these expectations its stock price may significantly decline. 
 
The
Company’s business is subject to the risks of international operations. 
 
The Company derives a large and growing
portion of its revenue and earnings from its international operations. Compliance with U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to the Company’s international operations, including without limitation import and export requirements, the
Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, labor laws, and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs of
doing business in foreign jurisdictions, and such costs may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation. Furthermore, the Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate
compliance with these laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that the Company’s employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or the Company’s policies. Any such violations could individually or
in the aggregate materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or operating results. 
 
The Company’s
financial condition and operating results also could be significantly affected by other risks associated with international activities, including but not limited to, economic and labor conditions, political instability, and changes in the value of
the U.S. dollar versus local currencies. Margins on sales of the Company’s products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could be materially adversely affected by foreign
currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties. 
 
The Company’s primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada and certain parts of Asia, as well as non-U.S. dollar denominated operating
expenses incurred throughout the world. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, and generally will lead the
Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company’s products. In some circumstances, due to competition or other reasons, the Company may decide not to raise local prices to the full extent of the dollar’s
strengthening, or at all, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies, while generally beneficial to the Company’s
foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company to reduce international pricing, thereby limiting the benefit. Additionally, strengthening of foreign currencies may also increase the Company’s cost of product components
denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. 
 
The Company has used derivative instruments, such as
foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of
unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. 
 
The Company is exposed to
credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of its investment portfolio. 
 
Although the Company has not recognized any
material losses on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, any significant future declines in their market values could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. Given the global nature
of its business, the Company has investments

 
 


22 






Table of Contents



both domestically and internationally. Additionally, the Company’s overall investment portfolio has concentrations in the financial sector, which has been negatively impacted by adverse
market liquidity conditions in the recent past. Credit ratings and pricing of these investments can be negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results, or other factors. As a result, the value or liquidity of the
Company’s cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements. This risk is
heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. 
 
A substantial majority of the Company’s outstanding trade
receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade receivables resulting from purchases of components by contract manufacturers and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final
products for the Company. In addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements to secure supply of certain inventory components. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on
its trade and non-trade receivables as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition
and operating results. 
 
The matters relating to the Company’s past stock option practices and its restatement of
consolidated financial statements may result in additional litigation. 
 
The Company’s investigation into its past
stock option practices and its restatement of prior financial statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 gave rise to litigation and government investigations. As described in Part I, Item 3,
“Legal Proceedings,” several derivative and class action complaints regarding stock options were filed against the Company and current and former officers and directors. These actions have been dismissed following a comprehensive
settlement. Two former officers of the Company were also named as defendants in an SEC enforcement action, which has been settled. 
 
No assurance can be given that additional actions will not be filed against the Company and current and former officers and directors as a result of past stock option practices. If such actions are filed and result in adverse findings, the
remedies could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
Unfavorable
results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company. 
 
The Company is subject to various legal
proceedings and claims that have arisen out of the ordinary conduct of its business and are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit,
litigation may be both time-consuming and disruptive to the Company’s operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. In recognition of these considerations, the Company may enter into material settlements.
Should the Company fail to prevail in certain matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the Company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against it that
would materially adversely affect a portion of its business and might materially affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company is subject to risks associated with laws and regulations related to health, safety and environmental protection. 
 
The Company’s products and services, and the production and distribution of those goods and services, are subject to a variety of laws and regulations. These may require the
Company to offer customers the ability to return a product at the end of its useful life and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in
which the Company

 
 


23 






Table of Contents



operates, including various countries within Europe and Asia and certain states and provinces within North America. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects based on
the nature of its operations and the focus of such laws, there is no assurance such existing laws or future laws will not materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
Changes in the Company’s tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect
its future results. 
 
The Company is subject to taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The
Company’s future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their
interpretation. In addition, the current administration and Congress have recently announced proposals for new U.S. tax legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect the Company’s tax rate. Any of these changes could have a material
adverse affect on the Company’s profitability. The Company is also subject to the continual examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of
adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition
and operating results. 
 
The Company is subject to risks associated with the availability and coverage of insurance. 


 
For certain risks, the Company does not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. Because the
Company retains some portion of its insurable risks, and in some cases self-insures completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insured limits could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating
results.

---0000320193-22-000108---
', 'Risk Factors', '5']
['

---0001193125-15-356351---
Paragraph:
Risk Factors

Paragraph:

---0001628280-16-020309---
', 'Risk Factors', '8']
['

---0001047469-07-009340---
Risk Factors    
 


Because of the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company's financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be
considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 


The matters relating to the Company's past stock option practices and the restatement of the Company's consolidated financial statements may result in additional litigation and
government enforcement actions.  


The findings from the Company's investigation into its past stock option granting practices and the resulting restatement of prior financial statements in its 2006
Form 10-K have exposed the Company to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. As 


13








 


described
in Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," several derivative complaints and a class action complaint have been filed in state and federal courts against the Company and certain
current and former directors and executive officers pertaining to allegations relating to past stock option grants. The Company has provided the results of its investigation to the SEC and the United
States Attorney's Office for the Northern District of California, and the Company has responded to their requests for documents and additional information. The Company intends to continue to provide
its full cooperation. 


On
April 24, 2007, the SEC filed an enforcement action against two former officers of the Company. In announcing the lawsuit, the SEC stated that it would not bring an enforcement action
against the Company based in part on the Company's "swift, extensive, and extraordinary cooperation in the Commission's investigation." According to the SEC's statement, the Company's "cooperation
consisted of, among other things, prompt self-reporting, an independent internal investigation, the sharing of the results of that investigation with the government, and the implementation
of new controls designed to prevent the recurrence of fraudulent conduct." 


No
assurance can be given regarding the outcomes from litigation, regulatory proceedings, or government enforcement actions relating to the Company's past stock option practices. These and related
matters have required, and will continue to require, the Company to incur substantial expenses for legal, accounting, tax, and other professional services, and may divert management's attention from
the Company's business. If the Company is subject to adverse findings, it could be required to pay damages and penalties and might face additional remedies that could harm its financial condition and
operating results. 


Global markets for personal computers, digital music devices, mobile communication devices, and related peripherals and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid
technological change. If the Company is unable to compete effectively in these markets, its financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected.  


The Company competes in global markets that are highly competitive and characterized by aggressive price cutting, with its resulting downward pressure on gross margins,
frequent introduction of new products and products, short product life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price/performance characteristics, rapid adoption of
technological and product advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers. 


The
Company's ability to compete successfully depends heavily on its ability to ensure a continuing and timely introduction of new innovative products and technologies to the marketplace. The Company
believes it is unique in that it designs and develops virtually the entire solution for its personal computers, consumer electronics, and mobile communication devices, including the hardware,
operating system, several software applications, and related services. As a result, the Company must make significant investments in research and development. By contrast, many of the Company's
competitors seek to compete aggressively on price and maintain very low cost structures. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell innovative new products with attractive margins, its
financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. 


In
the market for personal computers and peripherals, the Company faces a significant number of competitors, many of which have broader product lines and larger installed customer bases. There has
also been a trend toward consolidation that has resulted in larger and potentially stronger competitors. Price competition has been particularly intense as competitors selling Windows-based personal
computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. The Company also faces increased competition in certain of its key market segments, including consumer, education, professional and
consumer digital video editing, and design and publishing. An increasing number of Internet devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers
compete for market share with the Company's existing products. 


14








 




The
Company is currently the only maker of hardware using the Mac OS. The Mac OS has a minority market share in the personal computer market, which is dominated by makers of computers using competing
operating systems, most notably Windows. The Company's financial condition and operating results substantially depend on its ability to continually develop improvements to the Mac platform to maintain
perceived design and functional advantages. Use of unauthorized copies of the Mac OS on other companies' hardware products may result in decreased demand for the Company's hardware products, and
materially adversely affect its financial condition and operating results. 


The
Company is currently focused on opportunities related to digital content distribution, consumer electronic devices, including iPod and Apple TV, and mobile communication devices, including iPhone.
The Company faces substantial competition from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources, as well as established hardware, software, and digital content
supplier relationships, and also competes with illegitimate ways to obtain digital content. The Company expects competition to intensify as competitors attempt to imitate the Company's approach to
providing these components seamlessly within their individual offerings or work collaboratively to offer integrated solutions. Some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and
experience, and they may be able to provide such products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to provide products and
services that effectively compete. 


To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and transitions.  


Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communication industries, the Company must continually introduce new
products and technologies, enhance existing products, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. The success of new product introductions depends on a number of factors,
including timely and successful completion of development efforts, market acceptance, the Company's ability to manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp issues, the
availability of application software for new products, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in
appropriate quantities and costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new products may have quality or
other defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect new product introductions and transitions will have on financial condition
and operating results. 


The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk.  


The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or are in excess of anticipated demand or net realizable value and
accrues necessary reserves for cancellation fees for orders of products and components that have been cancelled. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever
events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the Company determines that impairment exists, it records a write-down equal to the
amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds its fair market value. Although the Company believes its inventory, asset, and related provisions are currently adequate, given the rapid and
unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the global personal computer, consumer electronics, and mobile communication industries, no assurance can be given that the Company will not incur
additional inventory or asset related charges. Such charges have had, and may have, a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 


The
Company must order components for its products and build inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. Because the Company's markets are volatile, competitive and subject to rapid
technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient inventories of components or products. Consistent with industry
practice, components are normally acquired through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, and open orders based on projected demand. Such purchase commitments typically cover forecasted
component and 


15








 




manufacturing
requirements for 30 to 150 days. The Company's financial condition and operating results have been in the past and may in the future be materially adversely affected by the
Company's ability to manage its inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns. 


Future operating results depend upon the Company's ability to obtain key components, including microprocessors and NAND flash memory, at favorable prices and in sufficient
quantities.  


Because the Company currently obtains certain key components, including microprocessors, enclosures, certain LCDs, certain optical drives, and application-specific integrated
circuits ("ASICs"), from single or limited sources, the Company is subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other key components that are available from multiple sources,
including NAND flash memory, DRAM memory, and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company has entered into
certain agreements for the supply of critical components at favorable pricing, but there is no guarantee that the Company will be
able to extend or renew these agreements on favorable terms upon expiration or otherwise obtain favorable pricing in the future. Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply
shortages and/or price increases that can have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results. The Company expects to experience decreases in its gross margin percentage in
fiscal year 2008, as compared to levels achieved during fiscal year 2007, due in part to current and expected future price increases for certain components. See "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations—Gross Margin." 


The
Company's new products often use custom components from only one source until the Company has evaluated whether there is a need for, and subsequently qualifies, additional suppliers. Where a
component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers' yields have matured. The Company and other producers in the personal computer, consumer
electronics and mobile communication industries also compete for various components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom
components that are not common to the rest of the personal computer, consumer electronics or mobile communication industries. Continued availability of these components at acceptable prices may be
affected if producers decide to concentrate on the production of components other than those customized to meet the Company's requirements. If the supply of a key component for a new or existing
product were delayed or constrained, or if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, the Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely
affected. 


The Company depends on component and product manufacturing and logistics services provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside of the U.S.  


Most of the Company's components and products are manufactured in whole or in part by third-party manufacturers, most of which are located outside of the U.S. A significant
concentration of this outsourced manufacturing is currently performed by only a few third-party manufacturers, often in single locations. The Company has also outsourced much of its transportation and
logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company's direct control over production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect such diminished
control will have on the quality or quantity of products or services, or the Company's flexibility to respond to changing conditions. In addition, the Company relies on third-party manufacturers to
adhere to the Company's supplier code of conduct. Although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible to the
consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects. Any unanticipated product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could
have a material adverse effect on the Company's reputation, financial condition and operating results. 


Final
assembly of the Company's products is currently performed in the Company's manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland, and by external vendors in California, Korea, China and the Czech Republic.
Currently, 


16








 




the
supply and manufacture of many critical components is performed by sole-sourced third-party vendors in the U.S., China, Japan, Korea, and Singapore. Sole-sourced third-
party vendors in China perform final assembly of substantially all of the Company's portable products, including MacBook Pros, MacBooks, iPods and iPhones. If manufacturing or logistics in these
locations is disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political
issues, the Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 


The Company relies on third-party digital content, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all.  


The Company contracts with third parties to offer their digital content through the Company's iTunes Store. The Company pays substantial fees to obtain the rights to this
content. The Company's licensing arrangements with these third parties are short-term and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all.
Some third-party content providers currently or may in the future offer competing products and services, and could take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license their
content in the future. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Company's access to, or increase the total cost of, such content. If the Company is unable to continue to
offer a wide variety of content at reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue to expand its geographic reach, the Company's financial condition and operating results may be materially
adversely affected. 


Many
third-party content providers require that the Company provide certain digital rights management ("DRM") and other security solutions. If these requirements change, the Company may have to
develop or license new technology to provide these solutions. There is no assurance the Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner. In
addition, certain countries have passed or may propose legislation that would force the Company to license its DRM, which could lessen the protection of content and subject it to piracy and could also
affect arrangements with the Company's content providers. 


The Company relies on access to third-party patents and intellectual property, and the Company's future results could be materially adversely affected if it is alleged
or found to have infringed intellectual property rights.  


Many of the Company's products are designed to include third-party intellectual property, and it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various
aspects of its products and business methods. Although the Company believes that, based on past experience and industry practice,
such licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on acceptable terms or at all. 


Because
of technological changes in the global personal computer, consumer electronics and mobile communication industries, current extensive patent coverage, and the rapid issuance of new patents, it
is possible that certain components of the Company's products and business methods may unknowingly infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties. From time to time, the
Company has been notified that it may be infringing such rights. Responding to such claims, regardless of their merit, can consume significant time and expense, and several pending claims are in
various stages of evaluation. In certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements, although no assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained
on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. If there is a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing or selling certain products or a successful claim of
infringement against the Company requires it to pay royalties to a third party, the Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. Information regarding
certain claims and litigation related to alleged patent infringement and other matters is set forth in Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." In management's opinion, the Company does not have a
potential liability for damages or royalties from any known current legal proceedings or claims related to the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights that would individually or
in the 


17








 




aggregate
have a material adverse effect on its financial condition and operating results. However, the results of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail to
prevail in any of the matters related to infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others described in Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings," or should several of these
matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 


With
the June 2007 introduction of iPhone, the Company has begun to compete with mobile communication device companies that hold significant patent portfolios. Regardless of the scope or validity of
such patents or the merits of any potential patent claims by competitors, the Company may have to engage in protracted litigation, enter into expensive agreements or settlements and/or modify its
products. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 


The Company's products experience quality problems from time to time that can result in decreased sales and operating margin.  


The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products that can contain defects in design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications,
such as those sold by the Company, often contain "bugs" that can unexpectedly interfere with the software's operation. Defects may also occur in components and products the Company purchases from
third parties. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware and software it sells. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue, harm to
reputation, and significant warranty and
other expenses, and could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 


The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate for a variety of reasons.  


The Company's profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The Company's software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher
gross margins than certain of the Company's other products, including third-party content from the iTunes Store. Gross margins on the Company's hardware products vary across product lines and can
change over time as a result of product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Company's direct sales generally have higher
associated gross margins than its indirect sales through its channel partners. In addition, the Company's gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be
materially adversely impacted as a result of a shift in product, geographic or channel mix, or new product announcements. The Company generally sells more products during the third month of each
quarter than it does during either of the first two months. This sales pattern can produce pressure on the Company's internal infrastructure during the third month of a quarter and may adversely
affect the Company's ability to predict its financial results accurately. Furthermore, the Company has typically experienced greater net sales in the first and fourth fiscal quarters compared to other
quarters in the fiscal year due to seasonal demand related to the holiday season and the beginning of the school year. Developments late in a quarter, such as
lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company's products, an internal systems failure, or failure of one of the Company's key logistics, components supply, or manufacturing
partners, could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 


The Company currently relies on a single cellular network carrier for iPhone in each of the U.S., U.K., Germany and France.  


AT&T, O2, T-Mobile and Orange are the Company's cellular network carriers for iPhone in the U.S., U.K., Germany and France, respectively. If these carriers cannot
successfully compete with other carriers in their markets for any reason, including but not limited to the quality and coverage of wireless voice and data services, performance and timely
build-out of advanced wireless networks, and pricing and terms of 


18








 


end-user
contracts, iPhone sales may be adversely affected. Because the Company's agreements require each carrier to make revenue-generating payments to the Company, a carrier's
non-performance under or termination of an agreement, or its inability to attract and retain iPhone customers, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future financial
condition and operating results. If, contrary to the Company's license agreements or product specifications, an iPhone is "unlocked" from an authorized carrier's network, the Company would not receive
payments related to that iPhone from such carrier, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company's future financial condition and operating results. The Company may choose to enter into
arrangements with carriers in other countries or regions, and the same risks described above would also apply to those arrangements. 


The Company is subject to risks associated with laws, regulations and industry-imposed standards related to mobile communications devices.  


Laws and regulations related to mobile communications devices in the many jurisdictions in which the Company operates are extensive and subject to change. Such changes, which
could include but are not limited to restrictions on production, manufacture, distribution, and use of the device, locking the device to a carrier's network, or mandating the use of the device on more
than one carrier's network, may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 


Mobile
communication devices, such as iPhone, are subject to certification and regulation by governmental and standardization bodies, as well as by cellular network carriers for use on their networks.
These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result in additional testing requirements, product modifications or delays in product shipment dates, which may have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 


Failure of information technology systems and breaches in data security could adversely affect the Company's financial condition and operating results.  


Information technology system failures and breaches of data security could disrupt the Company's operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer orders, impeding the
manufacture or shipment of products, or resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or Company information. Management has taken steps to address these concerns by implementing sophisticated
network security and internal control measures. There can be no assurance, however, that a system failure or data security breach will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
condition and operating results. 


The Company's stock price may be volatile.  


The Company's stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility as a result of variations between its actual and anticipated financial results and as a result of
announcements by the Company and its competitors. The stock market as a whole has also experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology
companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies' operating performance. Furthermore, the Company believes its stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations.
If the Company fails to meet these expectations its stock price may significantly decline. 


Economic conditions, political events, war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other circumstances could materially adversely affect the Company.  


The Company's operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions. War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other
business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and thus may have a strong negative effect on the Company, its suppliers,
logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers. The Company's business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters, fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, and other
hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Company's products, make it difficult or 


19








 


impossible
for the Company to make and deliver products to its customers or to receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in the Company's supply chain. Should major
public health issues, including pandemics, arise, the Company could be negatively affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental
actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps of new products, and disruptions in the operations of the Company's manufacturing vendors and component suppliers.
The majority of the Company's research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component
suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are located near major seismic faults. Because the Company does not carry earthquake insurance for direct quake-related losses and significant recovery time could
be required to resume operations, the Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake. 


The Company's success depends largely on its ability to attract and retain key personnel.  


Much of the Company's future success depends on the continued service and availability of skilled personnel, including its CEO, its executive team and key employees in
technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel in the technology industry are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley, where the
majority of the Company's key employees are located. The Company has relied on equity awards as one means for recruiting and retaining this highly skilled talent. Recent accounting regulations
requiring the expensing of stock options have resulted in increased stock-based compensation expense, which has caused the Company to reduce the number of stock-based awards issued to employees. There
can be no assurance that the Company will continue to successfully attract and retain key personnel. 


Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could materially adversely affect the Company.  


The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that are discussed in Part I, Item 3, "Legal Proceedings." The Company is also subject to other legal
proceedings and claims that have arisen in the ordinary course of business and have not been fully adjudicated. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of its
merit, litigation may be both
time-consuming and disruptive to the Company's operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. Should the Company fail to prevail in certain matters, or
should several of these matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 


The Company's business is subject to the risks of international operations.  


The Company derives a large portion of its revenue from its international operations. As a result, its financial condition and operating results could be significantly affected
by risks associated with international activities, including economic and labor conditions, political instability, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), and changes in the value of
the U.S. dollar versus local currencies. Margins on sales of the Company's products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, can be
materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade regulations, including tariffs and antidumping penalties. 


The
Company's primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada, and certain parts of Asia
and non-dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weaknesses in foreign currencies, particularly the Japanese Yen and the Euro, can adversely affect demand for
the Company's products and the U.S. dollar value of the Company's foreign currency-denominated sales. Conversely, a strengthening in these and other foreign currencies can cause the Company to modify
international pricing and affect the value of the Company's foreign denominated sales and may also increase the cost of product components. 


20








 




The
Company has used derivative instruments, such as foreign exchange forward and option positions, to hedge exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging
activities may not offset more than a portion of the adverse financial effect resulting from unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates. 


Further
information related to the Company's global market risks may be found in Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk," under the subheading "Foreign
Currency Risk," and in Part II, Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data," at Note 1, "Summary of Significant Accounting Polices" and Note 2, "Financial Instruments"
of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 


The Company's retail initiative has required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and is subject to numerous risks and
uncertainties.  


Through September 29, 2007, the Company had opened 197 retail stores. The Company's retail initiative has required substantial fixed investment in equipment and
leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory, and personnel. The Company has also entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space with terms ranging from 5 to
20 years, the majority of which are for 10 years. Certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and serve as vehicles
for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because of their unique design elements, locations and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company's more typical retail
stores. A substantial decline in sales, the closure or poor performance of individual or multiple stores, or the termination of the retail initiative could result in significant lease termination
costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and severance costs that could have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 


Many
factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the Company's control, pose risks and uncertainties that could have a material adverse effect on the Retail segment's future results,
cause its actual results to differ from anticipated results and have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. These risks and uncertainties include, among
other things, macro-economic factors that have a negative effect on general retail activity, inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation, inability to sell third-party
products at adequate margins, failure to manage relationships with existing retail channel partners; lack of experience in managing retail operations outside the U.S., costs associated with
unanticipated fluctuations in the value of retail inventory, and inability to obtain and renew leases in quality retail locations at a reasonable cost. 


The Company's future performance depends on support from third-party software developers. If third-party software applications cease to be developed and maintained for the
Company's hardware products, customers may choose not to buy the Company's products.  


The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase the Company's hardware products are often based on the availability of third-party application software, such as
Microsoft Office. There is no assurance that third-party developers will continue to develop and maintain applications for the Company's hardware products on a timely basis or at all, and
discontinuance or delay of these applications could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. The Company believes the availability of third-party
applications depends in part on the developers' perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company's products versus Windows-based
products. This analysis may be based on factors such as the perceived strength of the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, continued acceptance by customers of Mac
OS X, and the costs of developing such applications. If the Company's minority share of the global personal computer market causes developers to question the Company's prospects, developers could be
less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Company's products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. The Company's
development of its own software applications may also negatively affect 


21








 


the
decisions of third-party developers, such as Microsoft and Adobe, to develop, maintain, and upgrade similar or competitive software for the Company's products. Mac OS X Leopard, which became
available in October 2007, includes a new feature that enables Intel-based Mac systems to run Windows XP and Windows Vista. This feature may deter developers from creating software applications
for Mac OS X if such applications are already available for the Windows platform. 


During
calendar year 2006, the Company transitioned its Mac line of computers from PowerPC to Intel microprocessors. The Company depends on third-party developers to timely develop current and future
Universal applications. A Universal version of Microsoft Office and certain other important applications are currently not available. The lack of Universal applications that run on Intel-based Mac
systems could have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 


Investment in new business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company's ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated.  


The Company has invested, and may in the future invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including
distraction of management from current operations, insufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy, inadequate return of capital, and unidentified issues
not discovered in the Company's due diligence. Because these new ventures are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and initiatives will be successful and will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 


The Company's future operating performance depends on the performance of distributors and other resellers.  


The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, value-added resellers, and cataloguers, many of whom distribute products
from competing manufacturers. The Company also sells many of its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to end-users, certain education customers,
and certain resellers through its online and retail stores. iPhone is distributed through the Company and its exclusive cellular network carriers' distribution channels. 


Many
resellers operate on narrow product margins and have been negatively affected in the past by weak economic conditions. Some resellers have perceived the expansion of the Company's direct sales as
conflicting with their business interests as distributors and resellers of the Company's products. Such a perception could discourage resellers from investing resources in the distribution and sale of
the Company's products or lead them to limit or cease distribution of those products. The Company's financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected if the financial
condition of these resellers weakens, if resellers stopped distributing the Company's products, or if uncertainty regarding demand for the Company's products caused resellers to reduce their ordering
and marketing of the Company's products. The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers' stores with Company
employees and contractors and improving product placement displays. These programs could require a substantial investment while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue. 


The Company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements. This risk is heightened during periods when
economic conditions worsen.  


A substantial majority of the Company's outstanding trade receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. The Company also has unsecured non-trade
receivables resulting from the sale by the Company of components to vendors who manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. In addition, the Company has entered
into long-term supply agreements to secure supply of NAND flash-memory and has prepaid a total of $1.25 billion under these agreements, of which $208 million had been used as
of September 29, 2007. While the Company has procedures to monitor and 


22








 


limit
exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its
credit risk and avoid losses. 


The Company is subject to risks associated with laws and regulations related to health, safety and environmental protection.  


The Company's products and services, and the production and distribution of those goods and services, are subject to a variety of laws and regulations. These may require the
Company to offer customers the ability to return a product at the end of its useful life and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling with the Company. Such laws and
regulations have recently been passed in several jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including various countries within Europe and Asia, certain Canadian provinces and certain states within
the U.S. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of its operations and the thrust of such laws, there is no assurance such existing laws or future
laws will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 


Changes in the Company's tax rates could affect its future results.  


The Company's future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of
deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws or their interpretation. The Company is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service
and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no
assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating results. 


The Company is subject to risks associated with the availability and coverage of insurance.  


For certain risks, the Company does not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. Because the Company retains some portion of its insurable risks, and in
some cases self-insures completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insured limits may have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition and operating
results.

---0000320193-21-000105---
', 'Risk Factors', '6']
['

No risk factor found for AAPL - 0001047469-03-041604
No risk factor found for AAPL - 0001047469-02-007674
---0000320193-18-000145---
', 'Risk Factors', '8']
['

---0000320193-20-000096---
', 'Risk Factors', '5']
['

No risk factor found for AAPL - 0001193125-11-282113
---0000320193-23-000106---
', 'Risk Factors', '5']
['

No risk factor found for AAPL - 0000320193-95-000016
No risk factor found for AAPL - 0001047469-04-035975
No risk factor found for AAPL - 0000912057-00-053623
---0001193125-10-238044---
Risk Factors 
 
Because of
the following factors, as well as other factors affecting the Company’s financial condition and operating results, past financial performance should not be considered to be a reliable indicator of future performance, and investors should not
use historical trends to anticipate results or trends in future periods. 
 
Economic conditions could materially adversely
affect the Company. 
 
The Company’s operations and performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions.
Uncertainty about current global economic conditions poses a risk as consumers and businesses may continue to postpone spending in response to tighter credit, unemployment, negative financial news and/or declines in income or asset values,
which could have a material negative effect on demand for the Company’s products and services. Demand also could differ materially from the Company’s expectations since the Company generally raises prices on goods and services sold outside
the U.S. to offset the effect of a strengthening of the U.S. dollar. Other factors that could influence demand include increases in fuel and other energy costs, conditions in the real estate and mortgage markets, labor and healthcare costs, access
to credit, consumer confidence, and other macroeconomic factors affecting consumer spending behavior. These and other economic factors could materially adversely affect demand for the Company’s products and services and the Company’s
financial condition and operating results. 


 
 
10 






Table of Contents


 
 
In the event of
renewed financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets, additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, there could be a new or incremental tightening in
the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. In addition, the risk remains that there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the
Company’s business, including the insolvency of key outsourced manufacturing partners or suppliers or their inability to obtain credit to finance development and/or manufacture products resulting in product delays; inability of customers,
including channel partners, to obtain credit to finance purchases of the Company’s products and/or customer, including channel partner, insolvencies; and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively
impacting the Company’s treasury operations. Other income and expense also could vary materially from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of financial instruments; impairment charges resulting
from revaluations of debt and equity securities and other investments; interest rates; cash balances; and changes in fair value of derivative instruments. Increased volatility in the financial markets and overall
economic uncertainty would increase the risk of the actual amounts realized in the future on the Company’s financial instruments differing significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. 


Uncertainty about current global economic conditions could also continue to increase the volatility of the Company’s stock price.

 
Global markets for the Company’s products and services are highly competitive and subject to rapid technological
change. If the Company is unable to compete effectively in these markets, its financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 
 
The Company competes in highly competitive global markets characterized by aggressive price cutting, with resulting downward pressure on gross margins, frequent introduction of new products, short product
life cycles, evolving industry standards, continual improvement in product price/performance characteristics, rapid adoption of technological and product advancements by competitors, and price sensitivity on the part of consumers. 


The Company’s ability to compete successfully depends heavily on its ability to ensure a continuing and timely introduction of
innovative new products and technologies to the marketplace. The Company believes it is unique in that it designs and develops nearly the entire solution for its products, including the hardware, operating system, numerous software applications, and
related services. As a result, the Company must make significant investments in research and development and as such, the Company currently holds a significant number of patents and copyrights and has registered and/or has applied to register
numerous patents, trademarks and service marks. By contrast, many of the Company’s competitors seek to compete primarily through aggressive pricing and very low cost structures. If the Company is unable to continue to develop and sell
innovative new products with attractive margins or if other companies infringe on the Company’s intellectual property, the Company’s ability to maintain a competitive advantage could be negatively affected and its financial condition and
operating results could be materially adversely affected. 
 
In the market for personal computers and peripherals, the Company
faces a significant number of competitors, many of which have broader product lines, lower priced products, and larger installed customer bases. Consolidation in this market has resulted in larger and potentially stronger competitors. Price
competition has been particularly intense as competitors selling Windows-based personal computers have aggressively cut prices and lowered product margins. The Company also faces increased competition in key market segments, including consumer, SMB,
education, enterprise, government and creative markets. An increasing number of Internet devices that include software applications and are smaller and simpler than traditional personal computers compete for market share with the Company’s
existing products. 
 
The Company is currently the only authorized maker of hardware using the Mac OS. The Mac OS has a minority
market share in the personal computer market, which is dominated by computer makers using competing operating systems, most notably Windows. The Company’s financial condition and operating results depend substantially on the Company’s
ability to continually improve the Mac platform to maintain functional and 


 
 
11 






Table of Contents



design advantages. Use of unauthorized copies of the Mac OS on other companies’ hardware products may result in decreased demand for the Company’s hardware products, and could
materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company currently markets
certain mobile communication and media devices, and third-party digital content and applications. The Company faces substantial competition from companies that have significant technical, marketing, distribution and other resources, as well as
established hardware, software and digital content supplier relationships. Additionally, the Company faces significant price competition as competitors reduce their selling prices and attempt to imitate the Company’s product features and
applications within their own products or, alternatively, collaborate with each other to offer solutions that are more competitive than those they currently offer. The Company also competes with illegitimate ways to obtain third-party digital
content and applications. The Company has only recently entered the mobile communications and media device markets, and many of its competitors in these markets have significantly greater experience, product breadth and distribution channels than
the Company. Because some current and potential competitors have substantial resources and/or experience and a lower cost structure, they may be able to provide such products and services at little or no profit or even at a loss. The Company also
expects competition to intensify as competitors attempt to imitate the Company’s approach to providing these components seamlessly within their individual offerings or work collaboratively to offer integrated solutions. 


The Company currently receives subsidies from its exclusive and non-exclusive carriers providing cellular network service for iPhone.
There is no assurance that such subsidies will be continued at all or in the same amounts upon renewal of the Company’s agreements with these carriers or in agreements the Company enters into with new carriers. 


There can be no assurance the Company will be able to continue to provide products and services that compete effectively. 


To remain competitive and stimulate customer demand, the Company must successfully manage frequent product introductions and
transitions. 
 
Due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industries in which the Company competes, the
Company must continually introduce new products, services and technologies, enhance existing products and services, and effectively stimulate customer demand for new and upgraded products. The success of new product introductions depends on a number
of factors including but not limited to timely and successful product development, market acceptance, the Company’s ability to manage the risks associated with new products and production ramp issues, the availability of application software
for new products, the effective management of purchase commitments and inventory levels in line with anticipated product demand, the availability of products in appropriate quantities and costs to meet anticipated demand, and the risk that new
products may have quality or other defects in the early stages of introduction. Accordingly, the Company cannot determine in advance the ultimate effect of new product introductions and transitions on its financial condition and operating results.

 
The Company faces substantial inventory and other asset risk in addition to purchase commitment cancellation risk.

 
The Company records a write-down for product and component inventories that have become obsolete or exceed anticipated
demand or net realizable value and accrues necessary cancellation fee reserves for orders of excess products and components. The Company also reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changed circumstances indicate the carrying
amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If the Company determines that impairment has occurred, it records a write-down equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds its fair market value. Although the Company believes its
provisions related to inventory, other assets and purchase commitments are currently adequate, no assurance can be given that the Company will not incur additional related charges given the rapid and unpredictable pace of product obsolescence in the
industries in which the Company competes. Such charges could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 


 
 
12 






Table of Contents


 
 
The Company must order
components for its products and build inventory in advance of product announcements and shipments. Consistent with industry practice, components are normally acquired through a combination of purchase orders, supplier contracts, open orders and,
where appropriate, prepayments, in each case based on projected demand. Such purchase commitments typically cover forecasted component and manufacturing requirements for 30 to 150 days. Because the Company’s markets are volatile, competitive
and subject to rapid technology and price changes, there is a risk the Company will forecast incorrectly and order or produce excess or insufficient inventories of components or products. The Company’s financial condition and operating results
have been in the past and could be in the future materially adversely affected by the Company’s ability to manage its inventory levels and respond to short-term shifts in customer demand patterns. 


Future operating results depend upon the Company’s ability to obtain key components including but not limited to microprocessors,
NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs at favorable prices and in sufficient quantities. 
 
Because the Company currently obtains
certain key components including but not limited to microprocessors, enclosures, certain LCDs, certain optical drives, and ASICs, from single or limited sources, the Company is subject to significant supply and pricing risks. Many of these and other
key components that are available from multiple sources including but not limited to NAND flash memory, DRAM and certain LCDs, are subject at times to industry-wide shortages and significant commodity pricing fluctuations. The Company has entered
into certain agreements for the supply of key components including but not limited to microprocessors, NAND flash memory, DRAM and LCDs at favorable pricing, but there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to extend or renew these agreements
on similar favorable terms, or at all, upon expiration or otherwise obtain favorable pricing in the future. The follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the Company’s key suppliers, referred to in “
Economic conditions could
materially adversely affect the Company”
 above, which is incorporated herein by reference, also could affect the Company’s ability to obtain key components
. 
Therefore, the Company remains subject to significant risks of supply
shortages and/or price increases that could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. The Company expects to experience decreases in its gross margin percentage in future periods, as compared to levels
achieved during 2010, largely due to a higher mix of new and innovative products that have higher cost structures and deliver greater value to customers, and expected and potential future component cost and other cost increases. For additional
information refer to Part II, Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” under the subheading “Gross Margin,” which is incorporated herein by reference. 


The Company and other participants in the personal computer, and mobile communication and media device industries compete for various
components with other industries that have experienced increased demand for their products. The Company uses some custom components that are not common to the rest of these industries. The Company’s new products often utilize custom components
available from only one source. When a component or product uses new technologies, initial capacity constraints may exist until the suppliers’ yields have matured or manufacturing capacity has increased. Continued availability of these
components at acceptable prices, or at all, may be affected if those suppliers decided to concentrate on the production of common components instead of components customized to meet the Company’s requirements. If the supply of a key
single-sourced component for a new or existing product were delayed or constrained, if such components were available only at significantly higher prices, or if a key manufacturing vendor delayed shipments of completed products to the Company, the
Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 
 
The Company depends on
component and product manufacturing and logistical services provided by third parties, many of whom are located outside of the U.S. 
 
Substantially all of the Company’s components and products are manufactured in whole or in part by a few third-party manufacturers. Many of these manufacturers are located outside of the U.S., and
are concentrated in several general locations. The Company has also outsourced much of its transportation and logistics management. While these arrangements may lower operating costs, they also reduce the Company’s direct control over
production and distribution. It is uncertain what effect such diminished control will have on the quality or quantity of 


 
 
13 






Table of Contents



products or services, or the Company’s flexibility to respond to changing conditions. In addition, the Company relies on third-party manufacturers to adhere to the Company’s supplier
code of conduct. Although arrangements with such manufacturers may contain provisions for warranty expense reimbursement, the Company may remain responsible to the consumer for warranty service in the event of product defects. Any unanticipated
product defect or warranty liability, whether pursuant to arrangements with contract manufacturers or otherwise, could materially adversely affect the Company’s reputation, financial condition and operating results. 


Final assembly of the Company’s products is currently performed in the Company’s manufacturing facility in Ireland, and by
external vendors in California, Texas, China, the Czech Republic and Korea. Currently, the supply and manufacture of many critical components is performed by sole-sourced third-party vendors in the U.S., China, Germany, Ireland, Israel, Japan,
Korea, Malaysia, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Taiwan, Thailand and Singapore. Sole-sourced third-party vendors in China perform final assembly of substantially all of the Company’s Mac products, iPhones, iPads and iPods. If manufacturing
or logistics in these locations is disrupted for any reason, including but not limited to, natural disasters, information technology system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues,
the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 
 
The Company relies on
third-party digital content, which may not be available to the Company on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 
 
The
Company contracts with certain third parties to offer their digital content through the Company’s iTunes Store. The Company’s licensing arrangements with these third parties are short-term and do not guarantee the continuation or renewal
of these arrangements on reasonable terms, if at all. Some third-party content providers currently or in the future may offer competing products and services, and could take action to make it more difficult or impossible for the Company to license
their content in the future. Other content owners, providers or distributors may seek to limit the Company’s access to, or increase the total cost of, such content. If the Company is unable to continue to offer a wide variety of content at
reasonable prices with acceptable usage rules, or continue to expand its geographic reach, the Company’s financial condition and operating results may be materially adversely affected. 


Many third-party content providers require that the Company provide certain digital rights management (“DRM”) and other
security solutions. If these requirements change, the Company may have to develop or license new technology to provide these solutions. There is no assurance the Company will be able to develop or license such solutions at a reasonable cost and in a
timely manner. In addition, certain countries have passed or may propose legislation that would force the Company to license its DRM, which could lessen the protection of content and subject it to piracy and also could affect arrangements with the
Company’s content providers. 
 
The Company relies on access to third-party patents and intellectual property, and the
Company’s future results could be materially adversely affected if it is alleged or found to have infringed intellectual property rights. 
 
Many of the Company’s products are designed to include third-party intellectual property, and in the future the Company may need to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products
and business methods. Although the Company believes that, based on past experience and industry practice, such licenses generally could be obtained on reasonable terms, there is no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on
acceptable terms or at all. 
 
Because of technological changes in the industries in which the Company competes, current
extensive patent coverage, and the rapid issuance of new patents, it is possible that certain components of the Company’s products and business methods may unknowingly infringe the patents or other intellectual property rights of third parties.
From time to time, the Company has been notified that it may be infringing such rights. Regardless of merit, responding to such claims can consume significant time and expense. At present, the Company is vigorously defending a number of patent
infringement cases, and several pending claims are in various stages of evaluation. In certain cases, the Company may consider the desirability of entering into licensing agreements, although no



 
 
14 






Table of Contents



assurance can be given that such licenses can be obtained on acceptable terms or that litigation will not occur. If the Company is found to be infringing such rights, it may be required to pay
substantial damages. If there is a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting the Company from marketing or selling certain products or a successful claim of infringement against the Company requires it to pay royalties to a third party, the
Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected, regardless of whether it can develop non-infringing technology. While in management’s opinion the Company does not have a potential liability for
damages or royalties from any known current legal proceedings or claims related to the infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights that would individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect its financial condition and
operating results, the results of such legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Should the Company fail to prevail in any of the matters related to infringement of patent or other intellectual property rights of others or should several
of these matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 


With the introduction of iPhones and 3G enabled iPads, the Company has begun to compete with mobile communication and media devices
companies that hold significant patent portfolios. Regardless of the scope or validity of such patents or the merits of any potential patent claims by competitors, the Company may have to engage in protracted litigation, enter into
expensive agreements or settlements and/or modify its products. Any of these events could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 


The Company’s future performance depends on support from third-party software developers. If third-party software applications
and services cease to be developed and maintained for the Company’s products, customers may choose not to buy the Company’s products. 
 
The Company believes decisions by customers to purchase its hardware products, including its Macs, iPhones, iPads and iPods, are often based to a certain extent on the availability of third-party software
applications and services. There is no assurance that third-party developers will continue to develop and maintain applications and services for the Company’s products on a timely basis or at all, and discontinuance or delay of these
applications and services could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 


With respect to its Mac products, the Company believes the availability of third-party software applications and services depends in part
on the developers’ perception and analysis of the relative benefits of developing, maintaining, and upgrading such software for the Company’s products compared to Windows-based products. This analysis may be based on factors such as the
perceived strength of the Company and its products, the anticipated revenue that may be generated, continued acceptance by customers of Mac OS X, and the costs of developing such applications and services. If the Company’s minority share of the
global personal computer market causes developers to question the Company’s prospects, developers could be less inclined to develop or upgrade software for the Company’s products and more inclined to devote their resources to developing
and upgrading software for the larger Windows market. The Company’s development of its own software applications and services may also negatively affect the decisions of third-party developers, such as Microsoft, Adobe and Google, to develop,
maintain, and upgrade similar or competitive software and services for the Company’s products. 
 
With respect to iPhone,
iPad and iPod touch, the Company relies on the continued availability and development of compelling and innovative software applications. Unlike third-party software applications for Mac products, the software applications for the iPhone, iPad and
iPod touch platforms are distributed through a single distribution channel, the App Store. The absence of multiple distribution channels, which are available for competing platforms, may limit the availability and acceptance of third-party
applications by the Company’s customers, thereby causing developers to curtail significantly, or stop, development for the Company’s platforms. In addition, iPhone, iPad and iPod touch are subject to rapid technological change, and, if
third-party developers are unable to keep up with this pace of change, third-party applications might not successfully operate and may result in dissatisfied customers. Further, if the Company develops its own software applications and services,
such development may negatively affect the decisions of third-party developers to develop, maintain, 


 
 
15 






Table of Contents



and upgrade similar or competitive applications for the iPhone, iPad and iPod touch platforms. As with applications for the Company’s Mac products, the availability and development of these
applications also depend on developers’ perceptions and analysis of the relative benefits of developing software for the Company’s products rather than its competitors’ products, including devices that use competing platforms. If
developers focus their efforts on these competing platforms, the availability and quality of applications for the Company’s devices may suffer. 
 
The Company’s future operating performance depends on the performance of distributors, carriers and other resellers. 
 
The Company distributes its products through wholesalers, resellers, national and regional retailers, value-added resellers, and cataloguers, many of whom distribute products from competing manufacturers.
The Company also sells many of its products and resells third-party products in most of its major markets directly to customers, certain education customers, cellular network carriers’ distribution channels and certain resellers through its
online and retail stores. 
 
Many resellers operate on narrow operating margins and have been negatively affected in the past by
weak economic conditions. Some resellers have perceived the expansion of the Company’s direct sales as conflicting with their business interests as distributors and resellers of the Company’s products. Such a perception could discourage
resellers from investing resources in the distribution and sale of the Company’s products or lead them to limit or cease distribution of those products. The Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely
affected if the financial condition of these resellers weakens, if resellers stopped distributing the Company’s products, or if uncertainty regarding demand for the Company’s products caused resellers to reduce their ordering and marketing
of the Company’s products. The Company has invested and will continue to invest in programs to enhance reseller sales, including staffing selected resellers’ stores with Company employees and contractors and improving product placement
displays. These programs could require a substantial investment while providing no assurance of return or incremental revenue. 


The Company’s Retail business has required and will continue to require a substantial investment and commitment of resources and
is subject to numerous risks and uncertainties. 
 
The Company’s retail stores have required substantial fixed
investment in equipment and leasehold improvements, information systems, inventory and personnel. The Company also has entered into substantial operating lease commitments for retail space, with terms ranging from five to 20 years, the majority of
which are for ten years. Certain stores have been designed and built to serve as high-profile venues to promote brand awareness and serve as vehicles for corporate sales and marketing activities. Because of their unique design elements, locations
and size, these stores require substantially more investment than the Company’s more typical retail stores. Due to the high fixed cost structure associated with the Retail segment, a decline in sales or the closure or poor performance of
individual or multiple stores could result in significant lease termination costs, write-offs of equipment and leasehold improvements, and severance costs that could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating
results. 
 
Many factors unique to retail operations, some of which are beyond the Company’s control, pose risks and
uncertainties that could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, macro-economic factors that could have a negative effect on general
retail activity, as well as the Company’s inability to manage costs associated with store construction and operation, inability to sell third-party products at adequate margins, failure to manage relationships with existing retail channel
partners, more challenging environment in managing retail operations outside the U.S., costs associated with unanticipated fluctuations in the value of retail inventory, and inability to obtain and renew leases in quality retail locations at a
reasonable cost. 


 
 
16 






Table of Contents


 
 
Investment in new
business strategies and initiatives could disrupt the Company’s ongoing business and present risks not originally contemplated. 
 
The Company has invested, and in the future may invest, in new business strategies or acquisitions. Such endeavors may involve significant risks and uncertainties, including distraction of management from
current operations, insufficient revenue to offset liabilities assumed and expenses associated with the strategy, inadequate return of capital, and unidentified issues not discovered in the Company’s due diligence. Because these new ventures
are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that such strategies and initiatives will be successful and will not materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 


The Company’s products and services experience quality problems from time to time that can result in decreased sales and
operating margin. 
 
The Company sells highly complex hardware and software products and services that can contain defects in
design and manufacture. Sophisticated operating system software and applications, such as those sold by the Company, often contain “bugs” that can unexpectedly interfere with the software’s intended operation. Defects may also occur
in components and products the Company purchases from third parties. There can be no assurance the Company will be able to detect and fix all defects in the hardware, software and services it sells. Failure to do so could result in lost revenue,
harm to reputation, and significant warranty and other expenses, and could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
In the U.S. the Company relies on a single cellular network carrier to provide service for iPhone. 
 
In the U.S. the Company has contracted with a single carrier to provide cellular network services for iPhone on an exclusive basis. If this exclusive carrier cannot successfully compete with other
carriers in the U.S. market on any basis, including but not limited to the quality and coverage of wireless voice and data services, performance and timely build-out of advanced wireless networks, and pricing and other terms or conditions of
customer contracts, or if this exclusive carrier fails to promote iPhone aggressively or favor other handsets in their promotion and sales activities or service plans, sales may be materially adversely affected. 


The Company is subject to risks associated with laws, regulations and industry-imposed standards related to mobile communications and
media devices. 
 
Laws and regulations related to mobile communications and media devices in the many jurisdictions in which
the Company operates are extensive and subject to change. Such changes, which could include but are not limited to restrictions on production, manufacture, distribution, and use of the device, locking the device to a carrier’s network, or
mandating the use of the device on more than one carrier’s network, could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
Mobile communication and media devices, such as iPhones and 3G enabled iPads, are subject to certification and regulation by governmental and standardization bodies, as well as by cellular network
carriers for use on their networks. These certification processes are extensive and time consuming, and could result in additional testing requirements, product modifications or delays in product shipment dates, which could materially adversely
affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company’s success depends largely on the
continued service and availability of key personnel. 
 
Much of the Company’s future success depends on the continued
availability and service of key personnel, including its CEO, its executive team and highly skilled employees in technical, marketing and staff positions. Experienced personnel in the technology industry are in high demand and competition for their
talents is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley, where most of the Company’s key personnel are located. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to attract and retain key personnel. 


 
 
17 






Table of Contents


 
 
Political events,
war, terrorism, public health issues, natural disasters and other circumstances could materially adversely affect the Company. 
 
War, terrorism, geopolitical uncertainties, public health issues, and other business interruptions have caused and could cause damage or disruption to international commerce and the global economy, and
thus could have a strong negative effect on the Company, its suppliers, logistics providers, manufacturing vendors and customers, including channel partners. The Company’s business operations are subject to interruption by natural disasters,
fire, power shortages, terrorist attacks, and other hostile acts, labor disputes, public health issues, and other events beyond its control. Such events could decrease demand for the Company’s products, make it difficult or impossible for the
Company to make and deliver products to its customers, including channel partners, or to receive components from its suppliers, and create delays and inefficiencies in the Company’s supply chain. Should major public health issues, including
pandemics, arise, the Company could be negatively affected by more stringent employee travel restrictions, additional limitations in freight services, governmental actions limiting the movement of products between regions, delays in production ramps
of new products, and disruptions in the operations of the Company’s manufacturing vendors and component suppliers. The majority of the Company’s research and development activities, its corporate headquarters, information technology
systems, and other critical business operations, including certain component suppliers and manufacturing vendors, are in locations that could be affected by natural disasters. In the event of a natural disaster, losses and significant recovery time
could be required to resume operations and the Company’s financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected. 
 
The Company may be subject to information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches in data security. 
 
Information technology system failures, network disruptions and breaches of data security caused by such factors, including but not limited to, earthquakes, fire, theft, fraud, malicious attack or other
causes could disrupt the Company’s operations by causing delays or cancellation of customer, including channel partner, orders, negatively affecting the Company’s online, iTunes, MobileMe and retail offerings and services, impeding the
manufacture or shipment of products, processing transactions and reporting financial results, resulting in the unintentional disclosure of customer or Company information, or damage to the Company’s reputation. While management has taken steps
to address these concerns by implementing sophisticated network security and internal control measures, there can be no assurance that a system failure or loss or data security breach will not materially adversely affect the Company’s financial
condition and operating results. 
 
The Company expects its quarterly revenue and operating results to fluctuate for a
variety of reasons. 
 
The Company’s profit margins vary among its products and its distribution channels. The
Company’s software, accessories, and service and support contracts generally have higher gross margins than certain of the Company’s other products. Gross margins on the Company’s hardware products vary across product lines and can
change over time as a result of product transitions, pricing and configuration changes, and component, warranty, and other cost fluctuations. The Company’s direct sales generally have higher associated gross margins than its indirect sales
through its channel partners. In addition, the Company’s gross margin and operating margin percentages, as well as overall profitability, may be materially adversely impacted as a result of a shift in product, geographic or channel mix, new
products, component cost increases, strengthening U.S. dollar, or price competition. The Company has typically experienced greater net sales in the first and fourth fiscal quarters compared to the second and third fiscal quarters due to seasonal
demand related to the holiday season and the beginning of the school year, respectively. Furthermore, the Company sells more products from time-to-time during the third month of a quarter than it does during either of the first two months.
Developments late in a quarter, such as lower-than-anticipated demand for the Company’s products, issues with new product introductions, an internal systems failure, or failure of one of the Company’s key logistics, components supply, or
manufacturing partners, could have a material adverse impact on the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 


 
 
18 






Table of Contents


 
 
The Company’s
stock price continues to be volatile. 
 
The Company’s stock has at times experienced substantial price volatility due
to a number of factors, including but not limited to variations between its actual and anticipated financial results, announcements by the Company and its competitors, and uncertainty about current global economic conditions. The stock market as a
whole also has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected the market price of many technology companies in ways that may have been unrelated to these companies’ operating performance. Furthermore, the Company believes
its stock price reflects high future growth and profitability expectations. If the Company fails to meet these expectations its stock price may significantly decline, which could have a material adverse impact on investor confidence and employee
retention. 
 
The Company’s business is subject to the risks of international operations. 


The Company derives a significant portion of its revenue and earnings from its international operations. Compliance with U.S. and foreign
laws and regulations that apply to the Company’s international operations, including without limitation import and export requirements, anti-corruption laws, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), foreign exchange controls and
cash repatriation restrictions, data privacy requirements, labor laws, and anti-competition regulations, increases the costs of doing business in foreign jurisdictions, and any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these
laws and regulations or in their interpretation. Furthermore, the Company has implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that the Company’s employees,
contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or the Company’s policies. Any such violations could individually or in the aggregate materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition or operating results.

 
The Company’s financial condition and operating results also could be significantly affected by other risks associated
with international activities, including but not limited to, economic and labor conditions, increased duties, taxes and other costs, political instability, and changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus local currencies. Margins on sales of the
Company’s products in foreign countries, and on sales of products that include components obtained from foreign suppliers, could be materially adversely affected by foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations and by international trade
regulations, including duties, tariffs and antidumping penalties. Additionally, the Company is exposed to credit and collectability risk on its trade receivables with customers in certain international markets. There can be no assurance it can
effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company’s primary exposure to movements in foreign currency exchange rates relate to non-U.S. dollar denominated sales in Europe, Japan, Australia, Canada and certain parts of Asia, as well as
non-U.S. dollar denominated operating expenses incurred throughout the world. Weakening of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar will adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s foreign currency-denominated sales and
earnings, and generally will lead the Company to raise international pricing, potentially reducing demand for the Company’s products. In some circumstances, due to competition or other reasons, the Company may decide not to raise local prices
to the full extent of the dollar’s strengthening, or at all, which would adversely affect the U.S. dollar value of the Company’s foreign currency denominated sales and earnings. Conversely, a strengthening of foreign currencies, while
generally beneficial to the Company’s foreign currency-denominated sales and earnings, could cause the Company to reduce international pricing and incur losses on its foreign currency derivative instruments, thereby limiting the benefit.
Additionally, strengthening of foreign currencies may also increase the Company’s cost of product components denominated in those currencies, thus adversely affecting gross margins. 


The Company has used derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forward and option contracts, to hedge certain exposures to
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. The use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in
place. 


 
 
19 






Table of Contents


 
 
The Company is
exposed to credit risk and fluctuations in the market values of its investment portfolio. 
 
Although the Company has not
recognized any significant losses to date on its cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, any significant future declines in their market values could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results.
Given the global nature of its business, the Company has investments both domestically and internationally. Credit ratings and pricing of these investments can be negatively impacted by liquidity, credit deterioration or losses, financial results,
or other factors. As a result, the value or liquidity of the Company’s cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities could decline and result in a material impairment, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial
condition and operating results. 
 
The Company is exposed to credit risk on its trade accounts receivable, vendor non-trade
receivables and prepayments related to long-term supply agreements. This risk is heightened during periods when economic conditions worsen. 
 
The Company distributes its products through third-party cellular network carriers, wholesalers, retailers and value-added resellers. A substantial majority of the Company’s outstanding trade
receivables are not covered by collateral or credit insurance. The Company’s exposure to credit and collectability risk on its trade receivables are increased in certain international markets and its ability to mitigate such risks may be
limited. Cellular network carriers accounted for a significant potion of the Company’s trade receivables as of September 25, 2010. The Company also has unsecured vendor non-trade receivables resulting from purchases of components by
contract manufacturers and other vendors that manufacture sub-assemblies or assemble final products for the Company. Two vendors accounted for a significant portion of the Company’s non-trade receivables as of September 25, 2010. In
addition, the Company has made prepayments associated with long-term supply agreements to secure supply of certain inventory components. While the Company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and vendor non-trade
receivables as well as long-term prepayments, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results.

 
The matters relating to the Company’s past stock option practices and its restatement of consolidated financial
statements may result in additional litigation. 
 
The Company’s investigation into its past stock option practices and
its restatement of prior financial statements in the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended September 30, 2006 gave rise to litigation and government investigations. As described in Part I, Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,”
several derivative and class action complaints regarding stock options were filed against the Company and current and former officers and directors. These actions have been dismissed following a comprehensive settlement. Two former officers of the
Company were also named as defendants in an SEC enforcement action, which has been settled. 
 
No assurance can be given that
additional actions will not be filed against the Company and current and former officers and directors as a result of past stock option practices. If such actions are filed and result in adverse findings, the remedies could materially adversely
affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
Unfavorable results of legal proceedings could
materially adversely affect the Company. 
 
The Company is subject to various legal proceedings and claims that have arisen
out of the ordinary conduct of its business and are not yet resolved and additional claims may arise in the future. Results of legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of merit, litigation may be both time-consuming and
disruptive to the Company’s operations and cause significant expense and diversion of management attention. In recognition of these considerations, the Company may enter into material settlements. Should the Company fail to prevail in certain
matters, or should several of these matters be resolved against the Company in the same reporting period, the Company may be faced with significant monetary damages or injunctive relief against it that would materially adversely affect a portion of
its business and might materially affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 


 
 
20 






Table of Contents


 
 
The Company is
subject to risks associated with laws and regulations related to health, safety and environmental protection. 
 
The
Company’s products and services, and the production and distribution of those goods and services, are subject to a variety of laws and regulations. These may require the Company to offer customers the ability to return a product at the end of
its useful life and place responsibility for environmentally safe disposal or recycling with the Company. Such laws and regulations have been passed in several jurisdictions in which the Company operates, including various countries within Europe
and Asia and certain states and provinces within North America. Although the Company does not anticipate any material adverse effects based on the nature of its operations and the focus of such laws, there is no assurance such existing laws or
future laws will not materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
Changes in
the Company’s tax rates, the adoption of new U.S. or international tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect its future results. 
 
The Company is subject to taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. The Company’s future effective tax rates could be affected by changes in the mix of earnings in countries with
differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, or changes in tax laws or their interpretation. In addition, the current administration and Congress have announced proposals for new U.S. tax
legislation that, if adopted, could adversely affect the Company’s tax rate. Any of these changes could have a material adverse affect on the Company’s profitability. The Company is also subject to the continual examination of its income
tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for taxes. There can be no
assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will not materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results. 
 
The Company is subject to risks associated with the availability and coverage of insurance. 
 
For certain risks, the Company does not maintain insurance coverage because of cost and/or availability. Because the Company retains some portion of its insurable risks, and in some cases
self-insures completely, unforeseen or catastrophic losses in excess of insured limits could materially adversely affect the Company’s financial condition and operating results.

No risk factor found for AAPL - 0000320193-96-000023
No risk factor found for AAPL - 0001047469-97-006960
---0001193125-14-383437---
Paragraph:
Risk Factors

Paragraph:

---0001193125-13-416534---
Paragraph:
Risk Factors

Paragraph:

